Concerned members of the Phoenix Civic Movement, a social activist organisation, joined by residents of Phoenix, took to the streets of Phoenix to demand for better service delivery recently. Embarking on peaceful solidarity march, residents protested against the continuous water and electricity outages, failed billing system, poor service delivery, the rising crime and other burning issues affecting the residents of the area. Veteran community activist and chairperson of the Phoenix Civic Movement, Vivian Pillay said the purpose of the march was to create awareness about the organisation and their fight for basic human rights. He said: “Phoenix residents are up in arms and emotions are running high because the eThekwini Municipality and councillors are failing to provide efficient services to the ratepayers who diligently contribute to the municipal budget. The community is fed up with continuous service delivery issues of electricity and water outages, uncut play-lots and parks, non collection of garbage, filthy streets, failed billing  system, wasteful expenditure, high level of crime and vandalism,” said Pillay. He said the organisation has grey listed councillors and the municipality for poor service delivery. “Phoenix councillors have failed to have regular meetings with the purpose of giving feedback and to account on municipal policies that have a direct affect on the community, leaving residents in the dark and not knowing how their rates are being utilised. EThekwini is in disarray and local government associations are left to take responsibility for the poor performance of our municipality. In 2022, Mayor Xolisi Kaunda received a memorandum from Phoenix Civic Movement at a budget meeting in Phoenix, and promised to respond but failed to do so. This is an insult to the ratepayers of Phoenix and we will be engaging with the Speaker’s Office to illicit a response from the mayor,” said Pillay. The memorandum’s list of demands included scrapping all outstanding lights and water arrears, simplify utility bills with a concise statement, a flat rate for lights and water for impoverished residents of Phoenix, Metro Police to increase visibility and vigilance in Phoenix, public meetings and hearing for allocated budget in Phoenix, councillors to be accountable for the ward budget and to display professional ethics and behaviour, among other grievances and concerns. He said the Democratic Alliance, through the office of Francois Rodgers, recently hosted a public meeting calling for an engagement with all civic bodies that could assist to bring about a better eThekwini. “PCM was represented by our vice chairperson, Alice Govender, who demanded a meeting with the provincial leadership of the DA together with their Phoenix councillors. This will be a closed door meeting and a full report will be presented to the Phoenix community. Alice Govender also, inter alia, questioned the councillors competency to do their jobs, why war rooms are not set up in some wards, why is there are no mandatory community meetings, the disturbing attitude of some ward committee members and if the meeting with civic organisations was just another ‘horse and pony show’ to garner support for the up coming elections, to which John Steenhuizen responded it was not,” said Pillay. He added: “Phoenix councillors must be held accountable to their constituents for the dismissive and abusive manner they engage in and their poor performance. As a civic organisation, it is our legal duty to have oversight on ward councillors and municipality and it’s a function we take very seriously.” Phoenix Civic Movement is looking for candidates who have experience in community work to fill the organisation’s executive positions. Interested candidates are encouraged to email their CV’s to phoenixcivicmovement@gmail.com. Should you wish to join our the organisation’s volunteers group, WhatsApp your details to 073 908 4744.