During January and February more than R1.5 million worth of food was distributed to various communities in the South Coast who experience food insecurity, thanks to the generosity of Ignite Revolution. Founder of Ignite Revolution, Jessica Naicker, said that it is always an honour and privilege be able to extend hope to those who are seemingly hopeless. “We had the honour of distributing food to residents of Umzinto. The community was overwhelmed with gratitude. Deliveries were made to the homes of those bedridden, too old to walk and those with disabilities. We take the message of hope when we distribute food or any other initiative we do, we work among people who are hurting and hopeless. We don’t just hand out food, it’s an act of love,” she said. Naicker explained that helping these people feed their families serves as an unspoken message which says: “You are not forgotten; I see you and you are important and loved beyond measure by the creator of the universe and He sent us to remind you of that.” The organisation also assisted families from between Oslo Beach to Port Edward where many families told stories of financial difficulties and other hardships. “Many have life-threatening illnesses, some were deserted by their spouses and partners and they were left to fend for their children with no job and no resources. Some are veterans who cannot afford to put food on the table. Some were crippled or are too sick to walk. Many are too sick to work and fend for themselves. “Many lost their jobs during the pandemic, then the floods and rioting set them back further and they lost everything. Many of them now live in tents, caravan parks or shelters. The heartache, the pain and the homelessness is very evident.” Naicker shared that plans are in place to establish a food bank on the South Coast and establish a garden of hope in schools and communities to help them become more sustainable. “We would like to thank SA Harvest for their help in making this possible. You have blessed the South Coast immensely and we are humbled to have been the distribution partner on the South Coast,” she added. If you would like to donate to Ignite Revolution, contact Jessica on 078-651-4574.