Man granted bail after allegedly raping nine-year-old A 63-year-old Westcliff pensioner was granted bail after allegedly raping a nine-year-old learner in his home on Sunday, 26 February. A busload of residents and about 10 vehicles lined up outside the Chatsworth Magistrate’s Court on Monday, 6 March, to oppose his bail but they later learnt that the man, Bruce Naicker, had already appeared in court on Wednesday, 1 March, and was granted bail of R1000. Naicker will re-appear at the Chatsworth Magistrate’s Court on 19 April. According to the mother of the victim, the man who was her neighbour came to their home claiming that his wife wanted the child to purchase an item from the nearby tuck-shop. The 35-year-old Glenover Road mother whose eyes filled with tears while being interviewed, said: “I went to the neighbour’s house to check why my daughter did not return. When I opened the door, I saw the accused running into the kitchen and noticed my daughter pulling her pants up. I took her home and questioned her about what happened. She seemed very scared and said that nothing had happened. “When I took her to the bathroom, I became persistent and asked her to tell me the truth; if anything happened while she was there (neighbour’s house). My daughter told me that when she went towards the bathroom to speak to the accused’s wife, he pulled her hand and pushed her onto the bed. She said that she booted him and tried to run outside but he cornered her and thereafter pulled down her pants and penetrated her. “After hearing that the man received bail after what he did to my daughter, I am shocked. My daughter is traumatised and she is not herself anymore because of this man yet he gets to walk the streets freely.” Ward 70 Councillor, Tony Govender who accompanied the mother to court on Monday, said that the justice system has failed the community and ruined the life of the victim who is a young child. “The community rallied together with a bus and private vehicles to oppose bail but we were left in the dark as the man was already granted bail because he apparently gave an address in Phoenix and will not be a threat to the child. We were extremely disappointed, therefore the mother and I went to see the senior prosecutor at court. “She said that bail was opposed the first time and in his second appearance he gave a Phoenix address and therefore was granted bail. The legal system is very flawed and we need to tighten the screws when it comes to cases like this. Any man committing a crime against any child is unacceptable, no matter what age he is. They must be put in jail and the keys must be thrown away. “His life is now at risk after being granted bail as the community is looking for him and God forbid what will happen to him if or when he is found. The prosecutor told us that if we see the man in Chatsworth, we must inform them so that bail can be revoked. This guy should get the maximum penalty and we do not want him anywhere near our children. He is a monster of the first order and we want him out of our community.” Meanwhile, Mduduzi Mtolo, a 35-year-old general worker at a Welbedacht primary school who allegedly raped a five-year-old Grade R learner during school hours in the toilets last September, appeared in court on Friday, 3 March, and was remanded in custody at Westville Correctional Services until Friday, 31 March. The mother of the little learner said that she is battling to come to terms with what has happened to her daughter and had to relocate due to her daughter and herself being interrogated by the accused’s family. She said: “I want justice for my child. I do not want him to get bail. What happened to her was wrong and she is still traumatised. It has affected the both of us emotionally. I ended up losing my job as I was not concentrating at work and I was forced to move her from where I stay because of complications and threats. If he gets bail, our lives will be at stake. We do not feel safe near him or his family. I just want justice to be served.”