Angry residents of ward 48 are calling for the housing development on Evengreen Road in Greenbury, which they allege is an illegal development, to be stopped with immediate effect. Residents and parents of learners who attend nearby Greenheights Primary School have joined forces in calling on the developer to down tools, amid safety concerns for the minor children, who are being forced to use a busy main road to gain access to the school due to the blockage of the main gate and closure of the road and parking area, which was being used as a drop off and pick up zone. Members of the school governing body (SGB) said Greenheights Primary received an email from the developer on 7 December 2022 requesting that the school move its access gate because they intend to build houses adjacent to the school property, where a road and car park, used as a drop off and pick up zone is located, impacting on the school’s entrance access and related infrastructure in that vicinity. “If this development is allowed to go ahead, then the safety and security of more than 600 learners will be threatened as the only access to the school will be Greenbury Drive, which is the main road. The school does not have a qualified state paid scholar patrol to assist with the crossing of the learners on this extremely busy main road. With about six schools situated on Greenbury Drive, catering for over 4000 learners, one can imagine the chaos in the mornings and afternoons,” said members of the SGB. “By closing the access to the school and taking away this safe area for dropping off and picking up learners, we shudder to think of the number of lives that might be lost in the resultant added chaos. The intended development was reported to all stakeholders concerned including eThekwini Municipality and the Department of Infrastructure and Planning. We are still waiting for a response as we are merely custodians of the school and cannot legally take action against such developments. We hope that there will be some intervention from the municipality so that our school will continue to provide services to the community,” the SGB added. A concerned resident, Danny Govender said: “We are concerned for the safety of the learners as their lives will now be put at risk having to be dropped off and picked up on the busy main road. The parking lot which has been taken for housing was a safe area for the learners for their transportation in the afternoons. With the school gate being blocked for housing, what will happen to the children? These are small children, must they now play on the roadside while waiting for their transport? Must children get run over by speeding vehicles all because of housing? We cannot allow development to happen.” “The parking area was being used by the school and residents of the area for many years and suddenly someone deems it fit to buy it off and use if for housing. The fact that we were never consulted or informed about the upcoming development does call for public concern. Due processes were clearly not followed, there should have been public consultation to allow residents to either agree or object to this project. None of the residents knew about this development until the parking area was demarcated and it’s sad because the children will suffer the most.” Another irate resident, Deven Pillay said: “Everything else in this area is getting affected due to the development that is taking place. You cannot built on a stormwater pipe as all the lines will be ceased and people’s houses will get flooded if the waste doesn’t run where its intended to run. Ever since the construction began last week, there’s a huge congestion of cars in the mornings, with some taxi drivers already driving on the pavement where school children are meant to walk. Children are reaching school late because of the slow traffic flow. We have residents that have been living in this area for over 40 years, but the developer did not see the needs to seek permission to build from these residents, the school in question or the nearby Mosque. There’s clearly a lot of corruption and under handed business that’s going on within council and it needs to be investigated.” MPL Bradley Singh said an official from the Roads Department confirmed that the department of coastal storm water was not aware of this development. “If this road is damaged, there could be major repercussions for the residents or the school if flooding had to occur. The Roads Department was not aware that the road has been damaged and when a development takes place various departments need to get involved as each department is the custodian of its own infrastructure, which was not the case. We are not interested in the approved plans and title deeds, at the end of the day, this was a council project and must be overturned because there was no communication within departments,” said MPL Singh. He said: “The community is of the view that councillors are informed about these developments when plans are approved but in fact the councillors have no knowledge of what plan has been passed or who owns the property because it’s not their mandate. Most of the open spaces in Phoenix have already been taken so now developers are starting to look for the little space left where a house or two can be developed. Initially they realised that they couldn’t put houses in such spaces or they would have done it years ago and are now trying to force their way into the communities. This is completely unacceptable. With the Roads Department confirming that they are not aware of this development and one line department did not give consent for this development to take place, we consider it to be an illegal development. The community is up in arms and the officials who gave the authority to get this development going must be held accountable. We are calling for this development to be stopped without any delay, until we see all the necessary documentation and until the problem is resolved.” Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid Cascade Homes Trustee Mishka Dhai said: “The land in question is zoned as residential property and Cascade Homes Trust are eThekwini appointed developers. We serve the municipality by providing newly developed homes to the community. Prior to commencement of building, the municipal building plans for both properties have been approved and the clients are now the title deed owners of the property. Once the plans have been approved, building may commence as there are no further requirements by law to follow any due process by the landowners.” “A courtesy email was sent to notify the school of the development to alert them that the field entrance would be blocked, and to please ask learners to use the main entrance of the school until building is complete for safety of the learners. We also had numerous meetings with the school principal. Cascade Homes Trust also proposed a solution to move the field access gate to a more comfortable position and also offered to cover the cost involved with moving the gate and re-doing the driveway onto the field. To date, we have not received a response or permission from the school to be able to move the gate which we intended to do before building. We re-emphasise on the fact that we have taken all the necessary steps in terms of the building process prior to commencement including the registration of land onto the clients name, approval of plans and the properties have been zoned for Special Residential 180. It is unfortunate that the community has been misled and incited into believing that the land owners did not follow any due processes,” added Dhai. An official from the Housing Department Mr S Nhlapho said the development has been approved and has the approved plans in his possession. “If a plan is approved, it means that it went through all the due processes. Every section has a person who views the plan and signs off meaning that they have no objection against those plans, so somebody from the Roads Department signed off and approved the plan. A few weeks ago, I had a meeting with the school principal and further opened a dialogue between myself, the developer and the principal speaking about the issue. The two houses being developed have already been transferred to beneficiaries who are awaiting their homes. The Housing Department will engage the developer with regards to stopping the development until all the necessary processes are followed.