Kai Laubscher, a little football fundi hailing from Greenwood Park, is delighted to have been selected to jet off to Milan, Italy, this April for the much coveted Yes Cup tournament. The nine-year-old rising soccer star is however in need of help to make his dream come true. He will be representing the Durban Lyons, along with other young players from Richards Bay Utd and Mtuba Academy, playing for KZN United. At the international tournament, the young players will have the opportunity to show off their meticulous skills against countries such as the United States of America, Belgium, Serbia, France, England, Greece and Italy. According to Kai’s father, Ryan Laubscher, the minimum amount required is R26 000 which covers flights, passport, visa application, accommodation and tournament fees. “That figure may change depending on the exchange rate and does not include spending money. We are in the process of applying for visas and have to pay the accommodation this week. The closer we get to the date the more expensive the flights become. Kai being the youngest of three kids and having an older brother there is constant fight within him to keep up. I believe that it’s this fighting spirit that drives him to achieve his goals,” said Laubscher. The Greenwood Park Primary learner has a rich history with the sport despite his young age. Born at the time when his father coached the New Orleans FC, Kai spent most of his early life being exposed to football. “He couldn’t wait to get onto the field and when he was nearly four, I took him to Villa park to see if he would make it in their U6 team but it was still too soon. A year later we tried again, but this time he was more than ready! He took to the game like a fish to water and excelled from the first kick of the ball and hasn’t looked back since,” Laubscher said. Kai joined Riverside FC and helped win the summer league and thereafter was selected for the Hollywood Bets Mini Soccer league team which is a program that looked at identifying and developing youngsters. “Kai was the youngest player in the team that went on tour down the South Coast and ultimately won the tournament. That year Kai was awarded the players player of the year at Riverside FC. The following year he moved to DH7 where he played mainly as a CF or RW.” Commenting on this opportunity, Kai enthused: “I am extremely excited as I can’t believe that I am getting this opportunity to be playing in Italy!” Those who wish to contribute towards making Kai’s dream a reality are welcome to contact Laubscher on 067 059 9001.