Former Phoenix resident, Mandy Rose Naidoo, is determined to make her name known in the literature world after releasing her debut novel titled ‘Belonged’, in uMhlanga Rocks on Sunday, 5 March. The 58-year-old author, who dedicated almost four decades of her life working for the Department of Education, spent 10 years in Phoenix and later moved to Verulam, where she currently resides. She spent her educational career years at Crystal Point Secondary, Ferndale Combined School and lastly at Tongaat LSEN School. Speaking to Tabloid Newspapers, Naidoo shared that her novel started off as a personal project in 2020, due to her love for reading and writing. She said the story evolved into an uncontrollable desire to tell a story that is  based on love and adventure, which is set in seven different countries. “It is a story of love, faith and hope. I want people to take away that with strength, perseverance and determination anything is possible as well as that every cloud has a silver lining. This book emphasises that women are resilient, tenacious and have an unbreakable spirit,” said Naidoo. The novel was completed in July 2022, opening a new chapter in Naidoo’s literary career and life. The former educator, who found her passion in writing her novel, said her love for books and reading was instilled in her by her only sister, who she considered as her mentor, prayer partner and confidant. “In July 2021, the sudden death of my dear sister resulted in a deeper desire to complete the story of Amber. The continuous writing of the storyline for ‘Belonged’ was therapeutic and pivotal in motivating me to overcome the heartbreak of losing my one true best-friend. During the writing of the book, I entered a short story competition with the eThekwini Municipality and I was one of the prize winners that was selected to attend a writers workshop which aided the writing process of ‘Belonged’. My short story will be published in an anthology of short stories later this year,” said Naidoo. The author has always enjoyed telling stories and inspiring others and hopes that by sharing her stories and experiences she can help someone through her personal journey. Naidoo is excited to share her book, titled Belonged, along with written short stories, which will be published in an anthology of short stories later this year. She has already started writing her next book which she hopes to publish later on this year. If you would like to know more log onto www.mandyrosebooks.com or follow Mandy on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/mandyrose.naidoo or on Instagram @mandyrosenaidoo.