On the cusp of International Women’s Day – a global celebration of women achievement on 8 March annually – Durban’s young and ambitious medical researcher Deshanta Naicker has revealed that she could make a breakthrough in filling in the gaps of ongoing research by contributing to producing a new tool-making method in the laboratory for an improved diagnosis for sexually transmitted infections. Naicker, 28, a resident of Redhill, Durban North, is among dozens of women who are striving to change medical-science landscapes that could tilt more towards providing greater relief for STI sufferers. She is currently pursuing doctoral degree (PhD) in clinical medicine at Durban’s Nelson Mandela School of Medicine. In her educational journey, she has been among the high flyers in the quest for knowledge. She matriculated with a stunning seven distinctions and graduated with an Honour’s Cum Laude in microbiology, plus picking up the Dean’s commendation. In the next step, she was accepted of the Golden Key Honour Society. She then set her sights on her a master’s degree that inspired her to delve deeper into research and achieve a purpose in her life: “I was supervised by Professor Nathlee Abbai at a time when everything fell into place for my and I understood my purpose and the direction in life. My master’s research focused on sexually transmitted infections, I looked into bacterial vaginosis to find better sample types to improve diagnosis of this condition. I was privileged to attend an ante-natal clinic in which I associated with patients and collected samples for my studies.’’ “Upon speaking and getting to know these patients, I realised the  opportunity to work at a higher level to find better diagnostic tools in aiding to diagnose patients, in cases where there is a lack of not diagnosing patients. ‘’This was how I fell in love with science and I figured that I could make a vaccine for patients or develop a diagnostic tool that will help in giving a better diagnosis for people with STIs.” On another level, Naicker has presented her work at local and international conferences, and her name is included to the table of contents in the Southern African Journal of Infectious Diseases: “I spent six months at the University of Konstanz in Germany and gained more experience and laboratory techniques that I needed for my doctoral studies. I am focusing on Neisseria gonorrhoea that causes gonorrhea that is the second most recurrent and concerning STI worldwide.’’ “It is a multidrug-resistant bacterium. I believe that the work that I am doing will aid and assist in trying to possibly develop the vaccine or tools for a batter diagnostic method of treatment.” “I am focusing my energy and time wanting to complete my PhD degree. In building a strong research output, it will open many career opportunities for me to work in pharmaceutical companies and clinical trial teams locally/internationally.  I hope to one day develop a vaccine or cure for certain STIs.” As she celebrated International Women’s Day on Wednesday, she added: “I want to encourage more women to become scientists and to join the STI field. There is more scope and need for more research on STIs. As women, we need more women in science and research.”