When the founders of Ahmed Al-Kadi Private Hospital first envisioned the beautifully unique facility, a big part of their vision was to provide healthcare to the less fortunate. Following a successful establishment as a hospital of choice, Ahmed Al-Kadi Private Hospital has now realised this vision with the launch of the AAK Charitable Foundation in December 2022. The AAK Charitable Foundation is a non-profit company and registered public benefit organisation which works in partnership with Ahmed Al-Kadi Private Hospital. The foundation was announced at a formal gathering with CEO Ebrahim Asmal stating, “At Ahmed Al-Kadi, we are committed to improving access and improving quality of healthcare services to all South Africans. We, like Dr Imtiaz Sooliman and Gift of the Givers, believe that we can make people’s lives better through projects that enhance their life experiences.” He continued, “The overall mission of the foundation is to improve health and wellness by facilitating innovative partnerships and mobilising resources for healthcare projects. We drive strategically relevant CSI programs that compliment shortfalls in public healthcare services. Our aim is to work closely with the department of health, community leaders and other foundations like the Islamic Medical Association of South Africa and the Gift of the Givers, in an effort to align strategies to enable the implementation of projects that provide value to the communities in which we operate as well as those communities in which our employees reside, thereby strengthening and supporting the health system.” “About 80% of the population in South Africa does not have medical insurance, and relies on the public health system for its needs. The foundation serves as a conduit for funds allowing the private sector to make an impact in the public health space. We offer monetary contributions, sponsored pro bono admissions, and drive sustainable change to community upliftment and health lead projects,” he concluded.” It is with this in mind that the AAK presented Dr Imtiaz Sooliman and Gift of the Givers with a cheque from Ahmed Al-Kadi Private Hospital.