A case of murder is currently being investigated by the Verulam SAPS after a drive-by shooting resulted in the death of a 35-year-old well known taxi boss, Sibusiso Ndlovu, and the injury of a 10-year old boy outside the Louisville Primary School on Trevanan Road on Wednesday, 22 February.  Parents who were at the school at the time of the incident, said they were angry that their lives and their children’s lives were put in danger so callously. Running for safety and cover when the bullets started flying, the parents of the primary school children said the rise in taxi violence and drive-by shootings needs to be dealt with to avoid more deaths in the community Speaking to the Tongaat and Verulam Tabloid, Brenton Munsami, one of the affected parents, said he was waiting outside the school premises to pick up his child when the incident occurred.  “It was absolutely frightening, the way that the Mercedes just came out of nowhere and started shooting. What was worse is that no one could help the occupants in the other vehicle as we had to run for cover. The crime in the area is getting worse and it is extremely sad that people are losing their lives daily. I am not sure what the reason was behind the drive-by shooting but it is inhumane and no one deserves that kind of fate,” said Munsami. He added that it was frightening that the incident took place outside a primary school which put many children’s lives at risk. “The criminals are heartless. Children were afraid for their lives as they ran to safety. Many of the children even fell and got hurt. There was one child who was also grazed by a bullet and its scary because these incidents are happening so often. My condolences to the man who was killed during this incident and I hope that the family gets justice during their time of grief,” said said Munsami. According to Verulam SAPS, Communications Officer, Constable Bongiwe Ngcobo, the SAPS received a complaint of a shooting outside the gates of Louisville Primary School. She said on arrival at the scene it was established that  Ndlovu was showing his new driver the route for his pick up points of school children.  “While Ndlovu was seated in his motor vehicle, which was a silver Toyota Hilux, a brown Mercedes Benz, with four occupants and an unknown registration, drove past and opened fire at Ndlovu’s vehicle. Ndlovu sustained multiple gunshot wounds to his body, head and shoulders,” she said. Cst Ngcobo added that the Ndlovu’s vehicle had several gunshot holes to both side front doors, bonnet and left rear window. “Around 40 R5 spent cartridges were discovered on the scene as well as 9 mm shells. A 10-year-old minor who was walking nearby sustained grazes to his right arm and chest. He was treated by medics and is in a stable condition,” said Cst Ngcobo.  She added that no arrests have been made as yet and that a manhunt is still underway for the suspects. Reaction Unit South Africa, (RUSA) spokesperson, Prem Balram, said their operations centre became inundated with calls from residents, witnesses and educators reporting rapid gunfire soon after the incident.  He said some callers informed the controller on duty that the gunfire was directed at a Toyota Hilux bakkie. “All available reaction officers were dispatched and arrived on scene at approximately 2.23pm. Officers discovered a bullet riddled silver Toyota Hilux stationary next to the entrance of the school. The driver sustained multiple gunshot wounds to his head and body. He was declared deceased by medics. A few 9mm and high calibre cartridges from two different rifles were located around the deceased’s vehicle. The taxi owner’s 9mm pistol was located holstered in his waistband. He was allegedly at the school to pick up his child, however, this could not be confirmed,” said Balram.  He further added that according to witnesses, several scholars and parents were waiting for pick up from school during the shooting. “A 10 year old, Grade 5 learner, was struck by a stray bullet and other learner sustained bruises after falling,” said Balram.  Verulam Crime Watch Sector One PRO Kumaran Gungarajoo passed his condolences to the family of the deceased and said taxi violence has escalated to proportions beyond the communities control.  He said: “This is placing our innocent citizens lives at risk. We have had numerous shootings while the public was exposed to risk. We need interventions from authorities to curb this and manage it better.”  The Verulam Taxi Association was approached for a comment and was yet to respond by the time of print.