Nine volunteers led by Chief Freddie Halgreen make up F.R.E.D.D.I.E.S – an independent organisation equipped to respond to fires, both mountain and vehicle entrapments, disasters and distress including diving-related rescues as well as offering medical intervention before arranging private or government transportation to hospital, all at no cost to those they assist. The area in which the team currently works is rather expansive and covers Oliviershoek Pass, Northern Drakensberg to the N3 Colenso / Winterton off-ramp and Central Drakensberg up to the Lesotho border. The team has been operating in the area for over 10 years and in 2022, they finally established themselves as F.R.E.D.D.I.E.S. which stands for Fire, Rescue, Evacuation, Disaster, Distress, Incident and Emergency Services. Their goal is to provide the highest level of service to the community by furthering their training and obtaining more highly necessary lifesaving equipment. “Unfortunately, as a volunteer group, we do not have the funding for some necessary items,” Chief Halgreen told The Ladysmith Herald. The team of volunteers who are passionate about saving lives described Chief Halgreen as the hard-working, no-nonsense type with strong integrity, vast knowledge, a passion to assist and a big heart; adding that they are constantly motivated to strive to do better in their field by Chief Halgreen who takes each call-out as an opportunity to learn something new and improve their patient care. Some call-outs can be rather distressing and hard on the team, but F.R.E.D.D.I.E.S. – as cliché as it sounds – is a close-knit family who support one another in both coping with difficult call-outs as well as in a personal capacity. The team is fully qualified, with an advanced life support paramedic, three basic life support paramedics, five first aid level-3 first responders, one rescue technician and three divers; with another six volunteers scheduled for training. One of the team’s highlights, they say, was when F.R.E.D.D.I.E.S. raised funds for uniforms and necessary equipment for the volunteers and the community came through for them with great support. “It was an extremely humbling experience and one for which we are all so thankful,” said the team. They added: “The lowest point for us was when we were the first on scene at the Netcare 911 helicopter crash. The devastation of losing people you know and with whom you work is a trauma we all carry with us.” One of the biggest challenges while working on the road or in the field is that situations in remote areas pose many challenges such as requiring the correct and appropriate amount of equipment and supplies. “Therefore, the volunteers need to be resourceful, quick-minded and dedicated to the best patient care possible. We strive to deliver our best with every call-out, small or big. We do not strive for recognition or any labels but rather to know that we did everything within our power to assist.” For more information or to get in contact with the team, call 082-933-4116.