Asherville Community Police Forum, chairperson Imraan Vorajee said he is lucky to be alive after he was shot while responding to a home invasion recently. Vorajee said he spent six nights in hospital following the shooting on 25 February. Many residents have raised concerns over the safety of the selfless CPF members who are trying to protect the community. Speaking to the Springfield Weekly Gazette about the shooting, Vorajee said he had just came back from work when he received a call from a neighbour who had spotted five men going into the property opposite her house. “Initially, I thought it could be construction workers and did not think about my safety however, I already had my firearm with me. Upon arrival at the property, I did not see anything except the getaway car a few houses down the road. The next thing, I noticed a car reversing towards me. My son and I simultaneously heard gunfire. On the third volley of bullets, I got shot and the bullet went through my buttock and got lodged in my hip bone. I think the family was targeted for some reason or it was just opportunistic because unfortunately that family leaves their gates open sometimes and I have warned them on numerous occasions while I was out on patrol,” said Vorajee. Vorajee said as a CPF chairperson, he is disgusted that these crimes take place on a daily basis. “Nearly every single day someone is robbed of their belongings in Clayton, Mallison, Delta Roads. The suspects are drug users and if SAPS, Metro Police, Hawks and other relevant security departments did their jobs and rid the area of this course, we will definitely see a decrease in crime. Residents are aware and see the decay of the area on a daily basis, most have lived in Asherville all their lives, it’s no secret that it has became crime ridden, unkempt and just not a nice place to live in anymore. Some residents are aware of the drug houses in the area which are operating under the protection of police, it is pathetic. We don’t get involved in their business because we know how dangerous they are and what they are capable of. To the members of the SAPS, Metro Police, Hawks and other security departments who uphold our oath without fear, favour, corruption and risk their lives daily for our safety, we appreciate and acknowledge you.” Vorajee said his recovery and operation has been good. “I would like to thank Dr Manjra and his team from Ahmed Al-Kadi Hospital for treating me with love, care and professionalism,” he said. Dr Annie Singh, chairperson of the Asherville Ratepayers’ Association said the community is shocked and outraged by the shooting of their leader.  “Mr Vorajee’s selfless act of putting himself in harms way is nothing new, as he has responded on many occasions to assist members in distress in the community. The recent increase in shootings and senseless attacks on people, amongst whom have been prominent political leaders  and celebrities in the greater eThekwini area raises concerns about the need to clamp down on gun laws in the country. We are deeply affected by the increase in crime and the exposure of the community to the operation of the criminal element which is insidiously eating away at the heart of our community.”  Sydenham SAPS communications officer, Constable Busisiwe Phungula said they are investigating a case of attempted murder following the shooting. “No arrests have been made at this stage,” she said.