Residents of Dinapur Road Flats in Merebank complained bitterly about overflowing raw sewage which started on Sunday, 26 February. The sewer overflow has affected residents who occupy flats 102, 104 and 106.  Aneera Sewpersad, who has three members in her family, said that this issue usually arises when there are heavy rains. Sewpersad said: “We complained to eThekwini Municipality on the day that the issue arose, however, it was not fixed and we are forced to live in this condition. We informed the councillor as well, he has only been here once on 3 March when a truck from eThekwini arrived. They pumped the sewer at 52 Dinapur Road a little, however, they advised that the pump station needs to be repaired and we need a Camjet as the sewer is overflowing hence the mess everywhere.  “Another truck arrived and the person advised the same thing. Saturday, at midday, the same truck came again to ask if the Camjet arrived, I said no. He said they will have to come sort out the problem. On the same day, a member from eThekwini Municipality came and opened the manhole and advised that it is full. He asked me if the residents will allow a Camjet here and I said yes as the problem has to be sorted. To date, nothing has happened. The city has failed us miserably. How long must we live like this?” She said that children and adults were getting sick with the stench as it spread everywhere. “We could not come out of our houses or even open our windows. Our bathrooms were full of sewer water,” Sewpersad said. Steven Naidoo, a 68-year-old pensioner from the flats, together with a few residents decided to clean up some of the mess as it is really unhealthy to live in this condition. However, the problem is still ongoing. Mike Chetty, a ward committee member, together with the Merebank Alliance Forum have been trying to assist by lodging complaints. EThekwini Municipality and Councillor Aubrey Snyman were contacted for feedback regarding the issue, however, no comment was received by the time of going to print.