The official handover of proceeds that accumulated to R700 000, from the 2022 Hollard Daredevil Run to the Cancer Association of South Africa and the Prostate foundation of South Africa, celebrated the brave men who ran through the streets of South Africa in purple speedos to make a difference. The event, which saw men running 5km dressed only in purple speedos, challenges stereotypes about male cancers and starts conversations about understanding prostate and testicular cancer, on 30 September 2022. CEO of the Prostate Cancer Foundation of South Africa, Andrew Oberholzer, said the funds raised by the Hollard Daredevil Run and donated to the Prostate Cancer Foundation will be used to help raise awareness about prostate cancer and the importance of age- and risk-appropriate screening, to ensure that the disease is diagnosed in the early stages when it is potentially curable. He said: “One of the biggest challenges that we face is that prostate cancer screening is not easily available to many South African men even though a simple blood test, called a PSA test, can help identify the disease. In 2023 we’ll be embarking on more widespread PSA testing campaigns so that men who wouldn’t normally have access to a PSA test can have one. Funding from the Hollard Daredevil Run may well end up saving lives, as prostate cancer that’s treated in the early stages has an excellent cure rate.” Oberholzer said that prostate cancer is set to become the most common cancer in South Africa by 2030. “This is hardly surprising as black African men have a 60% higher risk of being diagnosed with prostate cancer than their white counterparts. What is even more disturbing, is that South African men get a more aggressive, faster growing type of cancer than black American men,” he added. Group Brand and Marketing Manager at Hollard Head, Joana Mondon, was filled with gratitude as she thanked the Cancer Association of South Africa and the Prostate Cancer Foundation for partnering with Daredevil for their amazing work and endless support that the association provides to Cancer patients. “At Hollard, we are all about providing for better futures, which is why the Daredevil Run is such an important event to us. Early detection saves lives. Catching prostate and testicular cancer early means better futures for those men affected by these cancers, better futures for their families, and, ultimately, better futures for communities around the country,” says Mondon. Anyone interested in finding out more about the 2023 Hollard Daredevil Run, or wanting to be kept up to date with the event plans for later this year, is urged to follow Daredevil Run on Facebook.