The Round Table Westville189 in partnership with non-profit organisation, Keep Westville Beautiful recently completed their first mural commission with creative mural artist, Giffy Duminy in an effort to keep the area beautiful. The first mural commission was done at the Westville Post Office.  Chairman of Round Table Westville189, Matthew Hayes said mural commissions that are in line with Keep Westville Beautiful feature wildlife that can be seen in Westville.  Hayes said the Westville Post Office in particular was looking rundown. “Mural works allow us to beautify spaces that are commonly seen by the public eye. The Westville189 hosted a Gin and Bowls event in 2022 which saw the community come together in a fun-filled day out on the bowling lawns of the Westville Bowls Association at the Westville Civic Centre. The event was a massive success, raising just over R10 000 which was put towards this beautiful mural. The mural features an African Pygmy Kingfisher perched on an flame lilly,” he said.  Hayes stated that following the successful launch, the club will host the second edition of the Annual Gin and Bowls Event on Saturday, 15 April. “Our ideas and planning of the community engaging event was to create a successful platform for the community to meet our Westville Club members and play a contributing role. We are hoping to commission one mural per year with Keep Westville Beautiful and artist Giffy. We play an important role to the community in giving back, and this is just one way of us showing it,” he said.  Chairperson of Keep Westville Beautiful, Liesel Muhl Kruger said they appreciate the relationship they have with Round Table Westville189. “Our mission is to work as one with Westville organisations. Their Gin and Bowls event last year was so much fun and really brought people together in this vision. We were very excited to then see that money go to an amazing mural by Durban’s very own, Giffy,” she said.  The Westville189 is situated in the Dawncliffe area, on the Westville Athletics Club property. They meet every second and fourth Thursday of the month. Residents who would like to join the club can contact Matthew Hayes on Facebook.