In its effort to drive economic growth in the KZN South Coast, South Coast Tourism and Investment Enterprise (SCTIE) has launched a #buylocal campaign.  This local-first initiative encourages communities and stakeholders to support local businesses, grow existing investments and thereby encourage job creation.  This forms part of the Department of Trade, Industry and Competition’s (the DTIC) ‘Buy Back SA’ initiative which encourages local business support as a way to create jobs and secure the country’s future by making it much more self-reliant.  Phelisa Mangcu, CEO of South Coast Tourism and Investment Enterprise (SCTIE), said: “We need to shift the mindset that suppliers beyond our borders are better than our own. The KZN South Coast offers a distinctive local flavour with suppliers manufacturing and providing goods that meet local market needs. There is an incredible amount of talent and skill which, through support, will only flourish and grow.”  Mangcu said that sourcing local ingredients and materials will be a game-changer for both the local and national economy. “By buying local, we’re strengthening the local economy, building communities and forming a solid and resilient network that will withstand any future uncertainties. Considering the economic devastation of the recent pandemic, resilience in the local economy is absolutely essential. Be a proud local and buy local.” Siya Ngesi, owner of Marine Drive Cabs and Shuttle Services, said that jobs are created when people support local businesses. “As a local taxi and shuttle service provider, we help visitors and locals discover an array of local beachside restaurants, places of interest and tourist destinations. I encourage South Coast residents to buy local and support local businesses in order to boost our local economy,” said Ngesi.  Here are seven reasons to buy local: 1. There’s a decrease in fossil fuel usage when buying locally as it decreases transportation needs from manufacturer to buyer.  2. Supporting local businesses creates a greater sense of community as sellers and manufacturers get to know their buyers, and vice versa.  3. Supporting the #buylocal campaign creates many more jobs and boosts the local economy.  4. Buying locally-grown produce is better for the environment and better for you as it’s farm-to-fork fresh.  5. Local businesses are identifiable, accessible, and more accountable than outside counterparts.  6. Buying local creates a much more resilient local economy, allowing organisations and communities to better withstand times of economic uncertainty.  7. Through the #buylocal campaign, the KZN South Coast is ‘growing its pride’ to attract interest and investments from beyond our borders.  Extending from Port Shepstone, the area’s economic hub, throughout the KZN South Coast, there are many investment opportunities. To find out more about these, get in touch with SCTIE, the KZN South Coast’s One-Stop Shop for investment. Contact SCTIE on 039-682-7944, email info@sctie.co.za or visit www.investkznsouthcoast.co.za.