Residents took to social media to express their views after the owner of popular Overport butchery, Star Meats released a statement on its closure on Monday, 6 March.  Star Meats owner, Riaz Jalal shared a post on the butchery’s Facebook page explaining that he decided to close the business following a smear campaign aimed at discrediting their operations and a recent attempt on his life. The statement read: “Dear stakeholders and valued clients. It is with regret that I inform you that we have been left with no option but to shut our doors of Star Meats. I took over the business in September 2020 in good faith with vigour and enthusiasm but unfortunately was not made aware of some factors of my purchase. As a result, the last 30 months have been challenging as I have had to deal with historical labour issues, creditors and many other issues that were not disclosed at the time of purchase. It is now public knowledge that we have been trying to fight back against a smear campaign aimed at discrediting our operations, staff and reputation. Through it all I continued to fight back to save the livelihood of 200 people that are dependent on the business for their daily sustenance, however, after the recent attempt on my life, the situation has become untenable. It has not been an easy decision and my concern for staff who stood by us trying to fight the smear campaign remains our priority whilst we try to address the legal matters.Thank you for your support throughout our time and the kindness shown as we tried our best to address the untruths aimed at destroying us. All the best and may The Almighty keep you safe.” Responding to the news on social media, Fatima Gangat Abed wrote: “Such sad news.May The Almighty grant you all ease, I will definitely miss purchasing your products in Port Elizabeth. I got so happy on Saturday when I went to the aunty that sells and saw some of your products in her freezer and I told her to please stock it.” Henry B Dauth wrote: “So sad. The only butcher I buy my meat from.” Shameera Vahed said: “May Allah grant you better and make it easy for all the workers and their families as well.”