The Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) has suspended the AbaQulusi Mayor and an Alfred Duma Municipal Councillor after two separate, unrelated, audio recordings surfaced in the past week, allegedly implicating the pair in seriously questionable conduct and misuse of their power within the party and the community. “The National Executive Committee (NEC) has considered these latest developments and resolved that the Mayor of AbaQulusi, Mncedisi Maphisa, is suspended from the party with immediate effect and is directed to take leave from municipal duties with immediate effect. Alfred Duma Municipal Councillor Warasally, who has allegedly been implicated in the audio clip, is suspended with immediate effect from the party and is directed to take leave as a councillor with immediate effect,” said IFP National Spokesperson, Mkhuleko Hlengwa (MP) Warasally’s suspension, with pay, comes after serious allegations were made when an audio recording surfaced on social media and exposed him for being involved in a sex scandal that sent social media users into a frenzy. On Thursday, 23 February, the African National Congress (ANC) in the Josiah Gumede Region and the Democratic Alliance (DA) called for immediate intervention from leaders of the IFP after serious allegations were made by the ANC in a media release which called an IFP Councillor within Alfred Duma Municipality a sexual predator. It is reported that the IFP leaders have taken the allegations surrounding the explicitly sexual 20-minute long audio recording seriously. On 27 February, the community of Ward 20 gathered outside the Ladysmith Town Hall on Murchison Street to demand that Warasally step down and face the law. “We want this devil out,” shouted one of the disgruntled residents outside Town Hall. Angry residents even blew up condoms and tied them to the doors of the building in which they had forcefully locked councillors and staff. “You are nothing but rubbish that uses women and then gives them empty promises,” said another protester. Hlengwa said that both the mayor and councillor will appear before the NEC at a special meeting. The IFP also re-affirmed the rights of women in the workplace to perform their jobs free from harassment and intimidation. “The IFP considers these matters to be of a very serious nature, and as such, they are receiving priority attention of the Party through investigation.” SAPS Ladysmith confirmed that two cases of rape have been opened against the councillor since the audio recording went viral, however, no arrests have been made. The DA in KwaZulu-Natal welcomes the strong action taken by the IFP.