An Umhlatuzana wife and her lover who are accused of the brutal murder of her husband, Bradley Singh whose body was found with multiple stab wounds in a pathway, are set to appear in court for a bail hearing on Tuesday, 7 March. The accused wife, 26-year-old Lauretta Ramrathan, and her lover, 38-year-old Zale Wendel Leo Brock, appeared at the Chatsworth Magistrate’s Court on Thursday, 2 March. The duo was remanded back into custody at Westville Correctional Services until their next appearance. The family of the deceased fumed with anger when Ramrathan casually walked up from the dock with a new hairdo and a big smile on her face. According to the deceased’s family, Ramrathan’s expression in court showed that she did not feel remorse for plotting and planning the murder of her husband who is also the father of her two young children. In Ramrathan’s statement, she said that she wants bail so that she could take care of her two children who need her while Brock said that he needed bail because he supports his child, wife and his extended family. Brock was represented by an attorney, Judy Reddy, while Ramrathan applied for legal aid. According to the evidence presented in court by the investigating officer, Detective Warrant Officer Shadrack Govender, the victim died from multiple chest-penetrating injuries and the duo staged the murder to make it seem like a robbery. “Ramrathan confessed to being the mastermind and to conspiring the murder with her lover, Brock. She said that after the deceased left for work, she contacted Brock to inform him that her husband will be approaching the pathway. The deceased also had an insurance policy of R50 000 with a clause which stated that if the deceased had to be killed in a tragic manner or in an accident, R100 000 will be paid out.” D/W/O Govender said that both the accused are unemployed with no assets and pose a flight risk. The state opposed bail because they believe that they have a strong case against the two accused. D/W/O Govender further stated: “Ramrathan was evicted from her home in Umhlatuzana and none of her family wants her. Both accused mentioned that they want bail to be with their children, but are these children guaranteed safety around them after everything that they did?” Family and friends of the deceased staged a placard demonstration outside the court prior to the case proceedings to oppose bail for the two accused. After much deliberation and cross-questioning, the magistrate said that the verdict for whether bail will be granted or not will be announced in court on Tuesday. Chairman of Dimes United Football Club, Louis Moodley, said: “The members of Dimes United Football Club are filled with immense shock as the revelation of this gruesome evidence of our late brother’s murder comes to light. What is even more devastating is that Dimes United have been assisting in cash and purchasing groceries over the last few months to support the late Bradley’s family, the last being on the day that his wife was arrested. “This was done out of love for our late brother, so we cannot comprehend such devious and conniving mannerisms that have been exhibited by the late Bradley’s wife who knew how hard and honestly he worked to take care of his family. Nothing will replace our dear brother Bradley so we now call on the law to exercise their full might to bring justice and closure for his family and friends.”