Bellowing smoke covered the skies of Phoenix over the weekend as angry Grove-End residents took to the street to air out their growing frustration over the continuous water and electricity outages being experienced in the area, in what they claim is a deliberate lack of service delivery to their community.  The protest, which began on Friday night continuing to Sunday, saw the Phoenix Highway being barricaded with burning tyres, making it impossible for motorists to drive in or out of the area. Phoenix police also closed off the Phoenix Highway near Clayfield after irate residents burnt tyres on Monday morning following the blow up of a substation that caused an outage in the area.     The protests began at the corner of Grove-End and Sterngrove on Friday evening where residents closed off the road and prevented motorists from coming into the area, forcing them to turn away and find alternative routes to get to their properties. Residents could be heard screaming: “No lights, no water, nobody will be going through until we get our lights and water, so turn.”  MPL Bradley Singh said 13 substations went off due to cable faults which caused a prolonged outage of electricity in various areas of wards 48, 49 and 50. The areas affected were Clayfield, Rockford, Grove-End, Stanmore, Longcroft, Eastbury and parts of Rydalvale.  “We must hold those officials to account who did not supply the additional man power to the residents of Phoenix when these outages were continuously happening. We must also apologise to the residents for the inconvenience caused to them with these prolonged outages,” Singh said. This comes as residents were forced to dispose of hundreds of rands worth of food from their fridges and freezes because of the over 40-hour long blackout. In a statement, the Head of Water and Sanitation, Ednick Msweli apologised for the inconvenience caused as a result of interruptions to water supply in different parts of Phoenix throughout the weekend.  He said: “For nearly two years Umgeni Water’s Reservoir (Reservoir 3 at Durban Heights Waterworks) that supplies Northern areas was undergoing repairs. This impacted on supply to all Northern areas, including Phoenix. Thankfully the repairs have been completed. However, it might take some time to fully recover the city’s reservoirs. We are already seeing some improvement though. The recent water outages were not as a result of reservoirs being empty. We had three burst pipes that were reported to us. When the protest started, a team was already on site attending to the first repair. The other two were also repaired afterwards. I fully understand the frustration during the time that we have been dealing with water supply challenges in Phoenix.” The statement further read: “The purpose of this message is to provide update on the current challenges, to commit, on behalf of the Water and Sanitation Unit, to work closely with yourselves, the Phoenix community at large and the councillors to address Phoenix service delivery issues as speedily as possible when they surface in future. We intend to increase our efforts in this community and all other communities affected in a similar manner in the city. We appeal to all residents to report all water supply interruptions to us through the City’s toll-free number, the EWS WhatsApp Contact Centre number and ward Councillors. I am confident that we will eventually prevail if we work together.”  Meanwhile, Water and Sanitation Minister Senzo Mchunu joined by the KwaZulu-Natal government delegation, led by Premier Nomusa Dube-Ncube, eThekwini mayoral delegation, led by Mayor Cllr Mxolisi Kaunda and Umngeni Water Board delegation, officially recommissioned Aqueduct 1 and opened Reservoir 3 at Umgeni’s Durban Heights Water Treatment Plant on Friday, 13 January.  Umgeni Water, as the implementing agent, refurbished both water infrastructures after Aqueducts 1 and 2 were severely damaged by rock falls on five sites due to torrential rains that caused flooding and massive landslides that hit the province in April last year. As a result of the severe damages, many parts of Phoenix went without regular water supply for several months, with residents reaching their boiling point after being left with no water and electricity on Christmas and Boxing Day, and ended on the streets protesting against the lack of service delivery in Phoenix.  On Friday, Minister Mchunu called on the KwaZulu-Natal’s provincial and local government, Umgeni Water Board and the private sector to work together to ensure water security in the province. The Minister said the repaired Aqueduct and the reservoir will now bring back up to 350 ml/d of potable water supply to the residents of eThekwini’s Durban North and surroundings who have been experiencing intermittent water cuts since last year’s floods and the subsequent refurbishment.  “I would like to express my gratitude to uMgeni for a job well done, Aqueduct 1 is fully repaired, we are excited to be commissioning it. This means that 90 Ml/d of raw water will now flow from the dam through to the reservoir, and this is good news as it means water supply will be restored. Now we are looking forward to the completion of Aqueduct 2 at the end of June as per your schedule, so that it also increases volume of the much-needed water to the communities,” Minister Mchunu said. KwaZulu-Natal Premier, Nomusa Dube-Ncube said: “Today marks a breakthrough for those communities in particular that have been suffering from lack of access to water in the areas surrounding Inanda, Ntuzuma, KwaMashu and many other areas in the north of Durban who rely on this network of water supply, as these aqueducts supply water to Umgeni’s biggest water treatment works called Durban Heights. This recovery of water infrastructure is part of the overall rebuilding programme of the provincial government. A lot has been achieved, and much still needs to be done but let us persist to work together with a view of building a better KwaZulu-Natal.”  Various political parties also weighed in on the service delivery crisis in Phoenix. Democratic Liberal Congress leader Councillor Patrick Pillay said it was unacceptable for the residents of Phoenix to be without water and electricity for days on end. “The lack of service delivery to the community of Phoenix since 2021 is an indictment on the elected political leadership. The sad reality is that, since the 2021 elections, service delivery in Phoenix is at its lowest. The DLC has been engaging on these service delivery issues with senior city officials and the Mayor accordingly,” said Cllr Pillay.  IFP’s Councillor Jonathan Annipen said: “As the IFP, we are aware that service delivery in Phoenix especially in wards 48, 49, 50 and 51 has been abhorrent and we have been on the forefront of providing reasonable solutions to the municipality and in holding the city to account for the same. We discourage the violent protests and any form of harm towards municipal staff. The IFP in eThekwini has been in constant contact with the City Manager and the relevant heads and is expected to meet with these role players this week.” The Democratic Alliance has requested an urgent meeting with the eThekwini Municipality Head of Electricity, Maxwell Mthembu, the Deputy City Manager for Trading Services, Sbusiso Makhanya and the City Manager, Musa Mbhele following the power outage that lasted over 40 hours.  DA eThekwini Caucus Leader, Thabani Mthethwa said the purpose of the meeting is to find a long term solution to the ongoing electricity crisis in the city. “This has caused pain and suffering for the residents who must now dispose of food they have worked hard to obtain. The city should immediately consider exempting Phoenix and other communities with weakened power infrastructure from load-shedding. We have noted that some disgruntled community members have taken to the streets to vent their rage at the DA councillors and while residents’ outrage and frustrations are natural, we want to reassure them that the DA councillors are doing all that is humanly possible to get the ANC-controlled municipality to address the suffering of residents across the city,” said Mthethwa.  Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Cpt Louise Naidoo confirmed that approximately 100 residents converged to the Phoenix Highway and barricaded the road with burning tyres. “A case of public violence against the protestors was opened at SAPS Phoenix. SAPS, Metro and Public Order Police Unit stood off at the crime scene. No injuries or damage to property was reported,” said Cpt Naidoo.