One of the country’s top Class of 2022 matric achievers, Husnaa Haffejee (17)  of Al-Falaah College has attributed her success to hard work and support from her educators and family. Haffejee and Kelly Prowse from the Western Cape tied for first place in the National Senior Certificate 2022 Independent Examinations Board results which were released last week. “Hard work does not betray. The secret to passing matric is to work consistently and not lose focus. I received a lot of support from my educators and parents. They have contributed to my success and I am grateful for their support. My parents have always supported me, especially when I doubted myself. They are always there to pick me up,” she said.“ The young Glenwood resident said when she first found out about being one of the country’s top leaners, she could not believe it. “The initial feeling was shock. I couldn’t believe it at first, excelling on a national level is truly humbling,” she said. Haffejee said she plans on studying medicine. “Making a difference to help humanity would be so rewarding and it will really make me happy,” she said. She added that her hobbies are reading, writing and watching movies with her family. Al-Falaah College principal, Zaffar Ahmed said they are honoured and humbled by Haffejee’s achievements.  “She is a gifted and exceptional child. All her years at my school, she has always been top of her class. She embodies the vision of what our school wants to produce. Students with academic excellence and excellent behaviour. Having a learner who is placed in the first position in the country, is first for my school and we are all proud,” he said. KZN obtained a 83% pass rate, jumping 6% from the 77% it had received previously. Education MEC Mbali Frazer said the quality of the results is indicative of the sterling work of  district teams and educators as well as the dedication of the learners to their academic work. “Our bachelor passes have increased from 61 856 in 2021 to 69 849 in 2022. There’s also been an increase in the number of diploma passes from 42 128 in 2021 to 43 908 in 2022. The number of higher certificates decreased from 23 945 in 2021 to 22 560 in 2022,” she said. The MEC added that five of the 11 KZN special schools obtained a 100% pass rate. “Three of them are in the Pinetown District and they are Kwathintwa, VN Naik as well as Fulton schools for the deaf,” said Frazer. “We once again wish to congratulate the Class of 2022 for setting the bar very high for this year’s cohort. As they exit the schooling system, I wish to say to them – there is no limit to what you can achieve , if you put your mind to it and work hard to achieve it. Education is your passport to the future so go out there and make your dreams a reality,” she said.