The Kathleen Voysey Clinic which provides free primary health care to many homeless, aged and unemployed Durban residents is in need of additional medical staff to volunteer their services for one morning a week. The busy clinic operates as a temporary pop-up facility, one morning per week. It works out of Umbilo Methodist Church Hall on Thursdays between 8am and 11am. The clinic is a registered health care organisation and formal non-profit organisation which sees approximately 200 patients per month. Clinic manager, Gregory Whitehead said in order to continue the excellent service the clinic has been providing, additional medical staff are needed to volunteer their time. “This would be best suited to a recently retired doctor, nursing sister, pharmacist or for a community-minded health-care professional who could donate a morning of their time to assist. It has been one of Musgrave Methodist Church’s mainstay outreach programmes for many years, founded in 1998 by medical professionals who attend Musgrave Methodist and saw the great need to provide primary health care, free of charge, to those who need it the most. Although it is a project of Musgrave Methodist, volunteers from all faiths are most welcome,” said Whitehead. Whitehead added that the Kathleen Voysey Clinic is entirely funded and supported by donors. “The clinic’s funding has been impacted over the last two years and we need funding support to be able to continue to purchase medicines, equipment and dressings. Without this vital support the clinic would not be able to continue, as the clinic does not receive any formal support from the city and the regional or national department of Health. The clinic also needs to secure a sustainable flow of cereals, soap and other basic hygiene products. A team of trustees manage the clinic. The finances are managed by Ewing Trust Company Ltd and they are audited annually.” Residents who are willing to help volunteer their time can contact, Gregory Whitehead on  031-201-2005 or on 082-806-1368 or email  greg@musgravemethodist.co.za or call Cindy Smith on 083-395-5493.