On Wednesday, 25 January, the body of 36-year-old Kershen Govender was found on the side of a road in the Silverglen area of Chatsworth. The father of two young girls had sustained a head injury and reportedly feared for his life the day before his body was found and later identified by the mother of his children. SAPS Bayview communications officer, Warrant Officer Collin Chetty, said that on 25 January, at about 05h00, SAPS Bayview responded to a case of murder on Silverglen Drive. “An Indian male, 36 years old, was found lying on the roadside with an injury to his head. The deceased was identified by family members. SAPS Bayview was initially investigating a case of murder but the case later changed to culpable homicide.” A 51-year-old man was arrested and charged. He appeared at Chatsworth Magistrate’s Court and was released on bail. Sasha-Lee Archary, the mother of Govender’s two children, said that she wants justice to prevail for her two girls, aged 12 and 14, who lost their father at such an early age. “I went to the crime scene when I received information that his body was found. I believe that he was not killed in Silverglen, but his body was just dumped there,” she said. Neil Naidoo, brother-in-law of the deceased, said that he saw Govender a day before his body was discovered. “He told me that there were men after him, who want to kill him. I was extremely concerned about him and asked him to take care of himself,” he said. Govender was described as a fun, bubbly, humble and well-respected individual, and a good father to his children. Govender enjoyed fishing, swimming and spending quality time with his family and friends. Rita Abraham of Shadow of his Wings Recovery Centre said that she knew Govender for the past 12 years and built a close mother-son relationship with him. “He was an intelligent man who studied at Benoni Technical College to fulfil his dream and passion for repairing electrical appliances. He also had the privilege of working in Dubai at a young age. It breaks my heart to know the gruesome manner in which he lost his life. “It is no secret that Kershen did struggle with drug addiction over the years, but not without trying many times to recover from this deadly vice. He did succeed many times to live a normal life. In my years of associating with him, I have never known him to be a violent person. He was in no way perfect but he always showed respect and was willing to help whenever a need arose. “It used to give him such joy at times to prepare a meal and help serve those in need during our feeding schemes. In the eyes of some, it is the death of a drug addict but to those who knew him and loved him, it is indeed a great loss. I pray that justice and the truth prevail so that his two young daughters find closure,” Abraham said. Police require assistance from anyone who may have witnessed how the deceased sustained his injuries. Anyone who is able to assist in the investigation can contact Detective Warrant Officer Naidoo on 082-787-8623 or the investigating officer, Babs Perumal, on 074-315-4776.