The family of 15-year-old Kristin Govender, who was left partially scalped and paralysed in a freak go-karting accident at Gateway Theatre of Shopping on 28 December, are hopeful that the teenager will one day walk again without having to undergo surgery. The Grade 10 learner, of Palmview Secondary School, is currently recovering in ICU at an uMhlanga hospital after her hair got caught and tangled in the axle of a go-kart which resulted in internal injuries, a torn scalp, torn aorta after experiencing an aneurysm, multiple staples and stitches on her head, a broken spine and spinal damage with no mobility from the waist down.  Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid, the victim’s father, Vernon Govender said his daughter is now responsive and talking but still has no movement from the waist down. He said Kristin is still in a critical state and that the family is being optimistic and hopeful for a full recovery, with no surgery required at her young age. The teen was in the company of her younger brother, uncle and aunt at the  the Action Karting establishment when she met with the life changing accident. Govender said what was supposed to be a fun-filled day out, “to try out the go karting experience” turned into a nightmare in a matter of minutes.  “My daughter confirmed that when she got in the kart, her hair was tied up in the hairnet provided and tucked in the helmet, she said to me after the first lap she crashed into some tires and came off the cart, when she wanted to resume the ride she noticed the cover for the axle had come off and she notified a staff member of that,” said Govender. The family alleged that Kristin was told to get back into the kart and continue riding, however it was during the second lap that the unfortunate incident occurred.  “Her hair got caught in the back axle and it was torn from her scalp. When I asked my children about the safety measures, whether they were shown any videos or tutorials or if they were given safety rules and regulations they said they were just given hairnets and helmets and asked to proceed,” said Govender.  The aggrieved father said he was notified that during the incident, the staff members were unable to assist or provide first aid.  “We are so upset with the fact that in such a serious emergency, no proper medical assistance was provided by the establishment or staff. My 13-year-old son had to take off his shirt and give it to my brother-in-law who then wrapped it on Kristin’s head, to try to stop the bleeding as she was bleeding profusely from the back of her head. The family is traumatised and holding it together, to be strong in helping Kristin through her recovery process,” said Govender.  He added that his son, brother-in-law, and sister are in trauma counselling as the incident still haunts them. He said the doctors are optimistic that Kristin will make a full recovery as she is very young. “It is going to be a very slow and long recovery,” Govender said. He added: “More safety measures should have been put in place and paramedics or at least trained first aiders on hand to provide medical assistance in such emergencies. It was just the public, bystanders and angels around her that offered medical assistance. My son had to think fast in that situation and aid his sister, there should have been more done by the establishment, more safety measures to avoid such incidents, no child and family should go through what we are right now, it’s a living nightmare.” Gateway Theatre of Shopping spokesperson, Shirley Williams, confirmed that the incident took place at the Action Karting establishment which is located at the mall. She said due to the sensitive nature of the incident and out of respect for the family, the mall will not comment on the details of the incident at this stage. “A representative from Centre Management has been in contact with the victim’s father since the day after the incident. Members of our team have also met with her family members at the Centres Management office. To note, the centre’s security responded immediately after being made aware of the incident and proceeded to call emergency services. The centre’s Security Supervisor was in attendance at the scene until the ambulance left the Centre. Where possible the Centre will assist with any information, reports and details needed by the family. Our thoughts are with the family at this very difficult time.” The Phoenix Tabloid approached the owner of Action Karting for a comment on the incident but was informed that due to ongoing investigations he was unable to comment at the moment, “on the advice of his attorney and insurers and will only do so once a full investigation has been undertaken and all the facts established”.  An incident report was opened at Durban North SAPS. Captain Raymond Deokaran, Durban North SAPS Communications Officer, said: “At the moment no criminal case as been opened and the incident was reported at the Durban North SAPS.” On Kristin’s recovery, Govender said: “Today, she managed to sit upright for a bit and have her feet on the floor with assistance from a physiotherapist, still no movement as yet we are giving her time. She has moved her feet and toes  a little bit. Slow and steady improvement she is still in ICU.”