It seems like studying medicine is in the DNA of the Maharaj family of uMhlanga whose youngest children have followed their parents and siblings into family tradition of administering healthcare to those in need. The parents, Naren and Jenita Maharaj are University of KwaZulu-Natal alumni who graduated under medicine and optometry respectively. Their son, Sahil followed in his parents footsteps and graduated with a medical degree, Cum Laude in 2021 while his siblings, Sandhya, Suhana and Smita are currently medical students at the Nelson R Mandela School of Medicine campus at UKZN. In the family of high flyers, Smita who is the youngest achieved a score of 92% average in the 2022 National Senior Certificate exams and is excited to join the Medical Class of 2023. She said: “This is a family tradition and I am absolutely elated to be given the opportunity to study at this institution. I believe that the quality of education at UKZN is phenomenal. UKZN graduates can confidently hold their own in any setting.” Inspired by her parents to enter the healthcare profession, the Westville Girls’ High matriculant said she fell in-love with medicine while watching her parents take care of their patients. “From an early age, I used to go into practice with my parents in uMlazi. I was moved by the gratitude expressed by patients when they were healed by my dad and mum respectively. These experiences left an indelible mark. I see healthcare providers for who they really are. They are not about arrogance, fame and fortune,” Smita said. She added that healthcare providers are the unsung heroes who silently go about helping the underprivileged in the untarred roads of rural areas. “Here, there is no media coverage, no hair and make-up, no camera, lights and action, this is just about medicine, healthcare and improving humanity. You go through this life once, I would like to make my life meaningful, and I believe that my purpose in this life is to help and uplift others,” said Smita. Suhana who is in her fourth year of study, joined UKZN during the Covid-19 pandemic. As she enters her clinical years of study, she recalls her first three years of study where her “life was drastically impacted by lock-downs and fears associated with the pandemic”. “My experience with UKZN thus far has been largely an online experience interjected with clinical exposure at Albert Luthuli Hospital. As I enter the clinical phase of my degree, I know that the journey ahead will be long and tiring. However, I am confident that the skills and knowledge I’ll gain from my incredible tutors, will be worth the struggle,” said Suhana. Her sister Sandhya, who is in her final year of study believes that medicine is about compassion, humility and care. “Medicine is not about ego, pride and vanity. The extensive clinical exposure as well as the early integration into the medical teams allowed me to create a strong foundation. The mentors I’ve trained under are some of the best in the country and their motivation and guidance has been exceptional,” said Sandya.