The dedicated and compassionate team of volunteers at the SAFE foster network are pioneering the cause of creating a haven for the hundreds of unwanted, abandoned and abused puppies and dogs in KwaZulu-Natal by “taking responsibility for change”. With fun and innovative ways of introducing the lovable fluff balls under their care to fellow fur lovers, thorough a foster care and adoption programme, SAFE has managed to rescue and re-home hundreds of furry friends, giving them a second chance of a loving home and family. The inspiring story of SAFE began when the organisation’s three core founders, Kerry Janke, Claire Augustyn and Milan Comley, crossed paths after a following the devastating floods, last April. Comley had put out a request for help on social media ahead of the second KZN floods, in May, about two litters of puppies who were at risk of drowning. Responding to the appeal, it was a fated meeting of hearts who aligned on the same values of making a positive change not only for animals but also for the community, when SAFE was established. Speaking to the Durban North News, Director and Spokesperson for SAFE, Victoria Naidu gave a glimpse of the foster network’s modus operandi. She said: “There is an overwhelming amount of unwanted, abandoned and abused puppies and dogs in KZN at present. We can no longer ‘adopt the problem’ away, so our focus is on solving the present while looking deeper into its root’s causes. The SAFE team has identified three key pillars to assist and take on the responsibility for change.” Pillar one is the betterment programme. “The reality is that most adult dogs that are in bad situations are unlikely to get adopted or re-homed. Each situation is unique and treated with a high level of care when there is a clear abuse. The animal is removed, however, when an owner is open and willing to get support, SAFE will step in to improve the quality of life for that animal and to educate the owner,” said Naidu. This offering of support includes sterilisation, vaccinations, deworming or providing the essentials such as food or shelter with the aim of tackling and reducing the number of abandoned and unwanted pups while ensuring that they are healthy and protected against disease such as rabies. Naidu said pillar two is the foster programme which was built from pillar one and serves as a lifeline to abused and neglected puppies. She said the foster network is built with over 100 active members within KZN who are ready to open their homes and hearts to give these pups or dogs a chance at a better future. “The Foster Programme provides all the essentials from food, bed and toys as well as medical care from SAFE. Pillar three is the adoption program where we find these pups a loving environment with a compatible owner in terms of lifestyle and environment. All pups from SAFE are fully vaccinated (age appropriate), dewormed, treated for ticks or fleas and micro chipped with full medical history disclosed,” said Naidu. The love for their furry friends does not stop there as a non-profit organisation has hosted exciting events to fundraise with the aim of curating an experience to individuals while sowing seeds into something greater than themselves. These include with Drink for A Cause which was held at Lucky Shaker and Puppy Yoga held at Flow Studio. “All tickets from both events were donated towards SAFE, which gave us the ability to keep doing what we are passionate about and simultaneously build communities. Pup meets and greets happen every month at least twice a month. The purpose of this event is to give individuals an opportunity to meet their interested pup in person, socialise all SAFE pups, raise brand awareness and give those around us some puppy cuddles. Who can resist?  It’s a win win situation,” Naidu said. She added: “We have also implemented the SAFE Community, late last year, where those that have adopted have been added onto a WhatsApp group chat to connect with each other, send pictures of their pup’s development, get advice on tips and tricks from potty training to buying a pup cake for their fur baby first birthday. It has created a sense of belonging to SAFE and reminds us where we have come to where we plan on going.” Naidu went on to say that every foster gets attached but to love something and help it grow it requires one to be attached and immerse themselves in the experience. SAFE foster plays a vital role between homeless and home as they bridge the gap between the two. “We wouldn’t be anywhere without our network of amazing fosters. Letting go doesn’t mean love lost but it means love won and they had a chance to rewrite the future of a life which is enough. SAFE has had more than a handful of foster fails which we love as well.” She added that there is space for everyone at SAFE and by acting as one, the opportunity for positive change are endless. “We are always looking to expand our team. You can contact Kerry Janke 081 564 1649 to offer a helping hand by fostering a pup, being a volunteer, helping up fundraise funds or even assisting at our Pup meet and greet. You can keep an eye on SAFE Facebook and Instagram page for all events and updates. There is so much more planned for this year,” said Naidu.