As the smell of roses and chocolates mingles into the humid summer air with shop windows and aisles decorated in red and white, it is a sign that the celebration of love and romance, also known as Valentines Day, is just around the corner. Valentine’s Day, also called St Valentine’s Day, is celebrated annually around the world on 14 February. On this day, couples in love lavish their partner’s with gifts, proclamations of love and other grand romantic gestures. As we lead up to Valentine’s Day, the Aniruth’s from uMhlanga have already gotten a head start on the celebration of their eternal love by celebrating their 27th anniversary this past weekend. Praneetha and Avilash Aniruth met at the opening of a nightclub, years ago, and said that it was love at first sight for the both of them. “We were married a year later, after our first meeting. My husband Avilash is the most incredible man that I have ever met. He continues to entertain, spoil me and makes me laugh all the time. There is never a dull moment when he is around. Those who know him, know exactly what I mean,” said Praneetha. The Aniruth’s believe that the key to a successful marriage is in three things which is love, respect and adventure. They describe themselves as Twin Flames, or in other words, a complete whole and not two separate parts. “We work and spend most of our time in the day together. We put the same love and energy into our marriage as we do in our business, and that works well for us. God and prayer must always be the centre of a marriage,” said Praneetha. Almost three decades into their marriage, the Aniruth’s are still very much in love and are looking forward to jetting off to India for their anniversary and to celebrate Valentine’s Day in style. Their advice to other romantics and young people in-love is: “Go on a date night, at least once a week and be each other’s best friend. It is important to work as a team and make spirituality and God the centre of your life.” The Aniruth’s joins Durban North News to wish all our readers and advertisers a blessed and happy Valentine’s Day.