A Phoenix father is on a quest to get justice for his son who was left disabled and brain damaged in a hit and run incident after a “lovers spat” that took place outside his home in Caneside, in 2020.  After nearly three years of looking after and being the main carer for his now 40-year-old son, Steven Dhanukdhari said: “Every day, all I think about is whether my son will ever get his day in court, after being senselessly run over and left for dead on the side of the road by someone who claimed to love him. I believe with all my heart my son deserves justice.” In 2020, Mark Dhanukdhari, who was 36 years old at the time, sustained serious injuries losing part of his skull and brain which left him disabled after an alleged hit and run accident at the hands of his ex-girlfriend, outside his home in Caneside. According to eye-witnesses, the incident occurred when Mark jumped out of the vehicle and went over to the driver’s side during what seemed to be a heated argument. He attempted to pull out the vehicle’s key from the ignition, however his ex-girlfriend started the vehicle and drove off, knocking down Mark and driving over his head. She then stopped the vehicle a few metres away from Mark when she noticed that neighbours were approaching the scene and fled thereafter. In an interview with the Phoenix Tabloid, Steven said he has appealed numerous times to the justice system and police to assist in investigating the case, however, he has had no joy with his pleas falling on deaf ears. “I remember that day, we just heard a loud bang and went to find Mark lying unconscious on the side of the road in a pool of blood. My son, who was a normal person, has not been the same since the accident. He has to take a large amount of medication and suffers from severe unpredictable epileptic attacks. My son is now wheel chair bound, he cannot move or think for himself after the accident. I am an old pensioner and a single parent after his mum passed away, I now have to look after my son’s every needs. A grown man who had everything going on for his future, from the time he wakes up, I bath him, change him into his clothes, I cook his food and feed him his breakfast, lunch and supper and see to his medication, right up until he goes to bed, I have to look after him like he is a small child. It really breaks my heart to see him in such a sad condition brought on by the hands of someone who was known to him.” Steven said the person responsible for his son’s condition should be charged accordingly but that the justice system is not allowing the law to run it’s full course. “How is she going on with her life knowing that she ruined my sons life, we have witnesses that saw her drive away after knocking over Mark and she denied everything, yet the police have not questioned her nor have they allowed this to go to court for her to be found guilty for what she has done to my son and give him that dignity,” Steven asked. According to Steven, many attempts to contact the investigating officer and visits to the police station to provide some relief and information about the case have been futile. He expressed his disappointment in the investigation and the officer who is handling the case. “We have been to the police station numerous times, yet up until now no investigation has been done and no date for court was set. I feel helpless and let down I don’t know what more I can do. I have tried calling the investigating officer over and over again to find out about the investigation only to have my calls go unanswered,” he said “I have no faith in police and the justice system but with all the strength I have left I will continue to seek justice from the person who ruined my son’s life,” he added Community activist Melissa Isaiah, who has been assisting the family in their pursuit of justice, said she visited the Phoenix police station to enquire about the case but did not receive satisfactory answers. “The investigating officer said he is still awaiting for witnesses to come forward with information on the incident. He stated that the docket is not closed and that the witnesses should come to the station to him,” Isaiah said. However, Phoenix SAPS spokesperson, Captain Louise Naidoo, said the docket was closed. Isaiah said: “I don’t think that this matter had been dealt with the full mite of the law. A person’s life had been shattered to the point where he is now unable to perform this regular duties and even work yet the accused gets to live a normal life. Every life matters and there must be consequences to every action. The law should be protecting our citizens. Justice must prevail, instead of our justice system failing our people. Incidents of this nature had been taken too lightly and it’s not fair on the person whose life has been destroyed. The victim deserves answers and justice is his right as a citizen of SA.”