For over 20 years, Brandon Pillay (MP) had a vision to build infrastructure that would cater for the needs of his community in Bayview. Pillay, who founded the Bayview Flats Residents’ Association in 1999 through the guidance of the late Professor Fatima Meer, has been serving the Bayview community ever since. This week, his vision could be seen during the sod-turning ceremony when he spoke of his passion for the Ubuntu Bayview Community Centre to materialise and reflected fondly of his first meeting with Vivian Reddy, the founder and chairman of Sibaya Community Trust who promised him that one day this dream would be realised. Pillay said that when he met Reddy, who has become his role model and mentor, the words that always stood out for him were: ‘If you can dream it, you can achieve it’. Pillay said: “This has certainly been a dream that has been achieved.”  Reddy confirmed that the Sibaya Community Trust is investing over R4 million to build the centre which will cater for community development.  “Today is indeed a special day. The community waited for this project for many years and finally, their dream is materialising with help from Sibaya Community Trust to build a legacy project; one that will offer many benefits to the locals in the area and surroundings,” said Reddy. The project will enable initiatives such as a daily soup kitchen; a medical camp; an advice desk for young people, the elderly and vulnerable people as well as a hub for programmes on gender-based violence (GBV), skills development, job creation, drug rehabilitation and substance abuse. Reddy said: “I am especially heartened by the fact that there is going to be a White Door Centre of Hope and Women’s Shelter, a much-needed facility. GBV is a pandemic in our communities, one that must be treated with radical interventions. I have been involved in the work of this community since 1999 and have supported many programmes for the Bayview Community over the years. “My tribute goes to Brandon Pillay, his passion and dedication since the age of 17 has shaped the future for Bayview residents. It is through his perseverance that we stand here today to make miracles happen.” Nonhlanhla Khoza, MEC for the Department of Social Development, said that she was delighted to learn that the Sibaya Community Trust has spent over R250 million on social upliftment and dubbed Reddy ‘The Father of KwaZulu-Natal’ for his philanthropic efforts towards the poorest of the poor. The project will start in the next few weeks and is expected to be completed by July this year.