Torrential rains which recently battered Newcastle and surrounding areas have left residents dealing with the aftermath of extensive damages caused to homes and businesses, with many saying that this was the worst flood that the town has experienced in over 20 years. A total of 87 residents had to be evacuated from their homes by emergency services via rescue boats and jet-skis and were transported to the Fairleigh Community Hall where warm meals, blankets and essentials were generously donated by fellow community members. The town had come to a complete standstill with infrastructure being compromised and many not knowing where to start with clean-up operations. The Community Policing Forum (CPF) together with Newcastle Municipality Community Services, security companies and the Newcastle Crime Fighter Task Team sprang into action, placing sandbags near riverbanks and homes in Paradise, Suryaville and Lennoxton. Areas which were severely affected included wards 4, 6, 7, 11, 17, 21 and 25 as well as businesses along Kirkland Street and the taxi and bus rank. Newcastle Mayor, Xolani Dube, said that Emergency Services and the Municipal Disaster Management Unit were on the ground attending to the affected stakeholders, and that assessments were underway to determine the total number of households and businesses affected. Mukesh Ramdharee, Chairperson of the Flood Liaison Committee of Suryaville, expressed his thanks to those who assisted during the disaster. “I would like to express my sincere gratitude to all those who have assisted in the flooding. I must allude that the floods experienced in the last few days are of another magnitude. I did go around and was saddened to see people evacuating their homes and animals in distress. My heart goes out to all who have suffered during the flooding,” said Ramdharee. The government has also, in terms of the Disaster Management Act of 2002, declared a national state of disaster to enable intensive, coordinated response to the impact of floods that have affected Mpumalanga, Eastern Cape, Gauteng, KwaZulu-Natal, Limpopo, the Northern Cape and the North West provinces. Flooding continued on Thursday night, 16 February, and Friday, 17 February, with businesses and residents evacuating before further damage could occur. The Newcastle Municipality has come under fire yet again as residents claim that their response time at a district and local level has been horrendous during the recent spate of flooding. Taking to social media platforms to voice their distaste, residents claimed that certain wards have not been visited by the Newcastle Mayor himself, Xolani Dube. Irate residents, who preferred to remain anonymous, claimed that apart from a few select individuals within the Traffic Department, Protection Services and the Ward 25 Councillor, Shandy Singh, the response from the municipality has been ‘woefully lacking’. “It is clear that the municipality lacks leadership and direction and is clearly ill-equipped to deal with the current disaster facing Newcastle and surrounding areas. Where was the leadership when residents were digging trenches in the streets to try and allow water to drain away from their homes? “Where was the leadership when residents were using private resources to rescue people from their homes? Where was the leadership when residents were filling sandbags and distributing them to their neighbours?” questioned the resident. Other residents claimed that apart from the Municipal Manager visiting a few homes, Mayor Dube has not made an appearance in Ward 3. “It seems as if our ward is always forgotten. Even in the media release, Ward 4 was not mentioned as being one of the affected areas with regard to the flood. We urge our leadership to also take an interest in this ward as we have also suffered a lot,” said the resident. The Newcastle Express reached out to the Newcastle Municipality for comment but none was received at the time of going to print.