The residents of Phoenix say that they deserve better from the eThekwini Municipality and recently demonstrated their concerns over the lack of service delivery to the area by holding a candlelight protest, to shine a spotlight on their plight. United in their cause, the residents joined by various community based organisations took to the streets in a peaceful protest to send out a message that they are tired of being on the receiving end of failing infrastructure. Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid, founder of host organisation, Giving Hope Foundation, Roy Sukdhev said: “Residents from various parts of Phoenix held their own neighbourhood candlelight protest to highlight their suffering due to the extended hours of power outages, continuous water cuts and erratic refuse removal which the community feels is done purposely. The residents had one common message, that they are hurting and deserve better.” Sukdhev said the peaceful demonstration also served to highlight that people can protest without destroying municipal infrastructure. He said: “We do not condone violent protests and plead with all affected residents to refrain from destroying our infrastructure and burning our township down. Peace protests are more effective. It is our constitutional right to protest but protests do not have to be destructive to convey a powerful message. We extend appreciation our to all organisations for uniting for one cause and using peace as a weapon to fight the service delivery crisis in Phoenix.” Johnny Reddy the chairman of the foundation said: “Members of the community are extremely hurt by the lack of compassion shown by their councillors and have expressed their heartsore regrets in voting for them. Residents concerns have been brought to the fore and serious pressure will now have to be put on the eThekweni Municipality by the relevant organisations and leaders to expedite the replacement of the electrical and water infrastructure and improve their waste removal services.” “The power cables, water pipes and reservoirs have not been maintained by the municipality for over two decades. The municipality has sidelined Phoenix for reasons well known by the citizens of Durban. The eThekwini Municipality is requested to urgently engage with the respective active organisations in Phoenix and come up with a plan of action with time frames to quell the anger of our people which they voiced at the candlelight peace protest,” added Reddy.