Growing up with a loving father who always encouraged her to show kindness and compassion led Dr Kajal Singh Nandlal, a dynamic woman with a passion for upliftment, to help change the lives of hundreds of young people through her leadership under the uMhlanga Women’s association’s Youth Sub-Committee (YSC). Describing the YSC as a movement borne of the premise that the youth are capable of attaining incredible goals when they are exposed to stimulating ideas and opportunities, Dr Singh Nandlal, together with an indispensable team, work tirelessly to improve the lives of children and adolescents. They help communities meet their basic needs while simultaneously alleviating hunger and malnutrition through ongoing feeding initiatives via the organisation’s community kitchen and awareness programmes. “My passion for community service and humanitarian efforts, largely instilled by my dad who always encouraged me to assist those in need, prompted me to get involved and support various medical outreach and humanitarian initiatives which eventually led me to join the uMhlanga Women’s Association. The organisation is made up of the most remarkable group of women who resonate with the most amazing energy and are making an incredible difference within various communities,” said Dr Singh Nandlal. To date, YSC has identified various schools and areas to channel their efforts with plans to roll them out in other areas, schools and learning institutions after each successful run. “Recently the UWAs YSC organised and hosted a Career Awareness Programme for over 110 Grade 7 learners. This initiative was planned in collaboration with a highly reputable career counsellor and industrial psychologist who guided learners in aligning their personality, potential and strengths with possible career options. Learners were fully engaged in a programme of inspiring talks delivered by entrepreneurs, doctors, nurses, architects, influencers and leaders,” she said. Among the YSC’s other successes was an ‘Xmas in a Bag initiative’ with the aim of sparking joy and hope in the lives of babies and children admitted in paediatric wards and homes in various areas including Durban, KwaMashu and Phoenix . “Some of these babies and children have been in hospital and homes without their parents or family for extended periods of time. Words cannot fully illustrate the degree of joy expressed by these children when the uMhlanga Women’s Association showed up at their bedsides with Xmas bags filled with care packs, treat packs and toys,” Dr Singh Nandlal said. Currently the committee scheduled distribution of whiteboards, including smart interactive whiteboards, generously donated by Adapt IT, to several designated schools which will enhance the learning experience for students and allow for more interactive teaching. Dr Singh Nandlal said: “Together with the Health and Wellness branch of the Women for Women Subcommittee the YSC assists in providing sanitary pads and disposable underwear packs for school girls so they can confidently go about their school day. “YSC is also an advocate of children’s rights which is enshrined in the 1989 United Nations convention on Rights of the Child (UNCRC) and within our country’s constitution. Poverty, dependence on adults and ignorance of rights puts children at greater risk of abuse, discrimination and exploitation.” According to Amnesty.org in 2020, during the height of the Covid-19 pandemic, globally, nearly 820 million children did not have basic hand washing facilities at school, contravening their right to health and putting them at greater risk of catching and spreading infection. Closer to home within surrounding communities, children experienced similar challenges. “Last year we successfully raised funding to rebuild a school toilet and wash facilities. We’re just beginning to scratch the surfaced. The young people of our communities have exciting and life changing YSC initiatives to look forward to. The support of the The Association members, Exco members, the uMhlanga community, corporates and Youth have been incredible. With this momentum I envision the YSC reaching amazing heights and making a lasting difference in many young lives,” she said. For more information on The Association, it’s various sub-committees or to get involved visit umhlangawa.co.za.