Former Verulam Secondary School matriculant, Clementine Mtiti is appealing to local residents and surrounding communities to assist in making her dreams of going to university become a reality, by helping to fund her further educational studies. The full of life 19-year old, moved to South Africa along with her family 14 years ago, due to the economic and political crisis that was taking place in Zimbabwe at the time. With big hopes of one day becoming a Chartered Accountant, Mtiti established specific goals for herself at the beginning of her matric year and she laid them out on her vision board where she could easily see them. Through determination and the passion to always excel in her studies, Mtiti made a name for herself in many debate competitions with the main one being where she was chosen to represent Verulam in a debate about social cohesion, in front of the KwaZulu-Natal premier and ministers, last year. In her final matric exams, Mtiti obtained eight distinctions and due to her not being of South African decent, she was declined NSFAS funding. Mtiti told the Tongaat and Verulam Tabloid that her initial reaction to her results was denial and that she counted her distinctions numerous times. She said what surprised her is that she obtained a distinction in mathematics, as the subject was a lifelong struggle and she couldn’t believe it. “The constant love from my family kept me sane throughout my matric year. Each member of my family made sure I was coping with the stress, was not short of basic stationery and they relieved me of some of my chores so I could have more time with my books and attend my classes. I was really emotional when well wishers started calling in congratulating me. I was really excited when I received firm offers at various universities for my first choice course, which is BCom Accounting. When I couldn’t get funding despite my results a part of me couldn’t accept that fate. I kept hoping that my miracle was around the corner even when deadlines were closing. I didn’t lose hope that something would show up,” she shared. Mtiti obtained 80% for mathematics, 83% for English, 87% for computer applications technology, 88% for dramatic arts, 90% for Afrikaans first additional language, 90% for accounting, 91% for business studies and 94% for life orientation. Speaking about her family, Mtiti said her family consists of five and that they have been her pillars of strength and hope. “In my family I have my mom and dad, who work together at a blinds manufacturing factory and my sisters, Clara and Claire, who in are grade 10 and 2. When the results came out initially it was pure shock and disbelief until It settled in and  we were all ecstatic, there were tears and jubilee for days. Because everyone was so involved in my matric journey it wasn’t just an achievement for me but for the whole family,” she added. She shared that one of her challenges when coming to South Africa was that sadly she was bullied for several years due to her citizenship but never let that get to her as she chose to rise above it. “To those who may be in the position that I once was in surround yourself with people you can draw strength and courage from like relatives or people you can identify with.  For me it was my family and the other Zimbabwean girls in the school at the time. There is nothing more comforting than being around those who understand and genuinely care,” said Mtiti. She advised the class of 2023 that friends, social media and the mall will always be there, but “you are in matric for just one year so make it count”. “Don’t walk out with regrets and don’t use circumstances as an excuse not to make yourself proud. Nobody expects you to get it right from the get-go so don’t beat yourself up for mistakes. If you feel you messed up, take it back to the drawing board, re-strategise and try again. Also, don’t neglect your wellbeing, try to do at least one thing you love each day,” she added. To assist Mtiti with furthering her studies, contact 061 500 5500.