An early morning raid on a container ship at the Durban harbour, on Thursday 23 February, uncovered 378 kg of pure cocaine. Customs officers of the South African Revenue Service (SARS) and the South African Police Service carried out the raid where the cocaine was found in one of the containers on board the ship. “The pure cocaine, estimated to have a value of R1.3billion, was detected after a week-long intelligence driven operation led by the SARS National Targeting Unit. The SARS Marine unit, Durban Operations, South African Police Service (SAPS) Crime Intelligence and National Detective Services boarded the vessel heading from South America to secure several containers that were profiled by SARS. The containers were inspected after they were unloaded in the Durban harbour. The inspection revealed zinc metal products and several black bags containing 378 bricks of pure cocaine,” SARS said. The illicit cargo and what appears to be cellular tracking devices were handed over to SAPS for further investigations. Police spokesperson, Brigadier Athlenda Mathe, said: “Together with the South African Revenue Service(SARS) customs officials and K9 dogs, the teams identified the container this morning, with twelve bags of cocaine worth a street value of R171 million. No arrests have been made and investigations are continuing to establish the source and destination of the drugs.” The Acting National Commissioner of the South African Police Service (SAPS), Lieutenant General Tebello Mosikili said the drug bust demonstrates that police are intensifying their efforts in disrupting and dismantling organised drug trafficking syndicates. “Well done to all teams involved including our Transnational Drug Trafficking investigations unit. This should send a stern warning to all drug traffickers utilising our harbours that South Africa continues to intensify its efforts to dismantle and disrupt the global drug trafficking trade”, said Lt Gen Mosikili. SARS Commissioner Edward Kieswetter praised the well-co-ordinated work of all enforcement agencies involved in the operation. “By working together, government has shown once again that it is determined to fight the scourge of narcotics entering the country and destroying the lives of its users, especially the youth. SARS will not tolerate these illegal activities but will rather continue to fulfil its mandate of facilitating legal trade to further economic development of our country,” Kieswetter said.