The community of Ward 20 in Ladysmith, gathered outside the Town Hall on Murchison Street this morning, 27 February, demanding that Ward 20 IFP Councillor, Abbas Warasally, step down and face the law. This follows allegations that Warasally is involved in a sex scandal which sent social media users into a frenzy last week. “We want this devil out,” shouted one of the disgruntled residents. Armed with placards, the community members refused to move away from the Town Hall’s steps, even locking councillors and staff inside the Town Hall by placing a chain and lock on the doors of the entrance. “This man who calls himself a ‘leader of the people’ is nothing but rubbish,” shouted another resident as a group of protesters scattered bin-bags and rubbish across the steps of the Town Hall. Angry residents even blew up condoms and tied them to the doors of the building. “You are nothing but rubbish that uses women and then gives them empty promises,” said a protester. Among the group of people, a few political parties also gathered and called upon the councillor to step down. Last Thursday, 23 February, the African National Congress (ANC) in the Josiah Gumede Region and the Democratic Alliance (DA) called for immediate intervention from leaders of the Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) after serious allegations were made by the ANC in a media release which called an IFP Councillor, within Alfred Duma Municipality, a sexual predator. “We demand that he steps down and if that does not happen we will close down Ward 20 and no entrance will be gained to the dumpsite,” said the protesters who had also handed over a memorandum. SAPS Ladysmith has confirmed that two cases of rape have been opened against the councillor since the audio recording went viral. “Investigations and statements, but no arrests have been made,” said Warrant Officer Bash Khan of SAPS Ladysmith. It is reported that the IFP leaders have taken the allegations surrounding the 20-minute long explicit sexual audio recording seriously, and will, in due course, advise their next step within the party. DA Caucus Leader in the Alfred Duma Region, Councillor Mike Suddaby, said in a press release that he has written to the Mayor of Alfred Duma Municipality, Councillor Zama Sibisi, and the Speaker, Councillor Bheki Sithole, to request that an Executive Committee member implicated in a “sex for jobs” scandal be suspended, pending investigation. “The DA has received the audio that has been widely circulated in the media, where the alleged sexual predator can be heard promising to extend a woman’s job contract in exchange for intercourse. This audio is disgusting and demeaning and if it is indeed the accused in the recording, his actions will have brought all councillors in the municipality – especially those in leadership positions – into disgrace and disfavour with the community,” said Cllr Suddaby.