The family of 33-year old, Tongaat resident, Donavan Govender, has been left heartbroken and devastated after DNA tests conducted on human remains found on Conifer Drive in Amanzimnyama were a positive match to the missing man. Govender, who went missing on 23 November 2022, suffered with depression which ultimately led to suicide. A family member, who wished to remain anonymous, told the Tongaat and Verulam Tabloid that Donavan was known as a wonderful and loving person who enjoyed fishing and playing cricket, however due to his depression he had become distant and never opened up to them. “Donavan was extremely caring and helpful towards his mother and as a family it has been hard to get closure especially because he never opened up to us. We tried to speak to him and help him but his depression got so bad that he did not want to let us help him,” said the family. They added that they were hurt at seeing their relative’s remains being broadcasted on social media by Reaction Unit South Africa (RUSA), who posted the gruesome images on their pages. “It is upsetting because of their lack of sensitivity. We have to live life with the images that were posted. The children in our family saw the images as well as many other family members and it is wrong. They do not understand the affects that their actions have on a family. We are hoping that they take responsibility and remove the post as it was very inappropriate,” said the family member. The family member added that they hope other families keep the communication open and try to help those who are suffering with depression at an early stage before the worse happens. “We will never know what pushed him over the edge, but we pray that he is at peace,” they said. Tongaat SAPS Communications Officer, Warrant Officer Manisha Maharaj-Marie, said that a case of inquest was opened. She said: “Donavan Govender, 33, was reported missing on 25 November 2022 at the Tongaat SAPS. Human remains were located on 25 January and a private DNA was done by his family, which led to a positive match to the missing person. No foul play suspected and his body was handed over to his family.” According to Reaction Unit South Africa (RUSA) spokesperson, Prem Balram, a family residing on Conifer Drive in Amanzimnyama contacted them for assistance at approximately 8.46am after they discovered a human skull in their yard on 25 January. He said: “On arrival, reaction officers discovered the human remains on the lawn. According to the homeowner, two of his three dogs have a tendency of exiting the yard through a hole in the fence to forage in a dense bush next to the property. They believe that the dogs found and returned to the yard with the human remains while they were asleep.” Balram added that the jaw bone on the skull appeared to be fractured or dislocated. Govender’s funeral took place on 11 February and he was later cremated at the Verulam Crematorium.