The fiancée of a 30-year-old father of two who was stabbed and run over by a vehicle after dropping off his son at school in St Theresa Road, Sydenham on Friday, 3 February has described him as a gentle person and the best father and partner she could ever ask for. The father of two, Clinton Pillay was allegedly stabbed by a man believed to be his brother-in-law. A CCTV video footage which depicts Pillay being stabbed by the attacker and run over by a vehicle after has sent shockwaves in the community, with many residents demanding for the perpetrator to be locked behind bars for life. Pillay’s fiancée Micaela Lawson said: “Clinton was gentle and warm. He was always full of jokes. He lived for his children. He would always go above and beyond for us, as his family. We were engaged and planned to get married this year. My brother is in jail for this but I also want justice for the driver who drove over him after he had been stabbed. He did not deserve this, he was a good man and a good father. My life will never be the same without him,” she said. Captain Carmen Rhynes from eThekwini District Communications SAPS said Sydenham police arrested a 23-year-old man on the same day of the murder. “He appeared in court on Wednesday,” she said. Sydenham residents have expressed their shock and grief following the incident. Resident, Candice Smith-Zwane said the suspect should be arrested and be kept in prison for a long time. “This is absolutely shocking. A father was taken away from his family by a selfish ruthless man. No one deserves to die in that manner. I watched the video, and my heart is shattered. I am devastated.I pray that God comforts the family during this time of grief. We are calling on police to do their job correctly and ensure that the suspect stays behind bars to prevent another incident like this,” she said. Sydenham Community Policing Forum chairman, Manser Akoo said Pillay sustained three stab wounds to his back and had a visible injury on his head. “He was declared dead at the scene. The community is still in shock, especially those who have seen the video. I am appealing to residents to stop sharing the video. The community needs to let police do their investigation in this matter,” he said.