Coming to terms with the loss of a loved one can be difficult for most but more especially for those who have not been adequately prepared to handle such situations. To help others with their journey through grief, a Shallcross mother of two who has been dealing with the loss of her father, has launched a book entitled ‘A Father’s Daughter’ which helps readers understand grief and the healing of one’s soul. Swastika Juggernath (38), a sneaker portfolio manager by day at Bata South Africa, possesses a PhD in Business Sciences. In her book, she uncovers the painful reality behind the loss of a loved one and how nothing could have prepared her for the sudden loss of her father during the Covid-19 pandemic. By sharing her experience as well as her childhood memories, the author shows how grief is often followed by regret and anger, especially when facing the loss of someone people consider special and irreplaceable. Juggernath said that, nevertheless, recovering is possible although equally painful as it requires a high price to pay and afterwards, as she suggests, it usually drives you to ask yourself more questions in an attempt to prepare the ones who will, in the future, find themselves in the same situation. Named after the originating ancient well-wishing Hindu Sanskrit symbol ‘Swastika’, Juggernath herself can be found reading and researching when she is not passionately writing. Her love for writing started at an early stage when she enjoyed writing essays and continued even after she escalated her writing through academic levels to achieve her long-life dream of obtaining her PhD in 2020. Juggernath doesn’t consider herself a famous writer but only an average mom and daughter who has experienced grief and has now decided to share it with the world. She said: “My children were one of the reasons I decided to write. My initial intention was to write about my dad for my own memories and for my children to remember him because they only knew him when he was ill and barely mobile. I understood that the depth of my grief equated to the love I felt for my dad and this started the writing.  “We all should aspire to leave the world better than we found it. We should aim to make some small contribution to the world or our community and this book was my contribution. Any of the themes mentioned in the book will help someone either relate to grief or the grieving process, and feel better understood. “We need to heighten awareness around our emotions and normalise them. I therefore anticipate that the novel will project hope, motivation, inspiration and a sense of belonging to a circle of people facing similar circumstances that your family, spouses or children may not be able to relate to. “I also foresee the book questioning parents, holding ourselves accountable for how much we talk to our children about death, grief, emotions and the aligned family values as well as spiritual beliefs that prepare children for their first encounter with grief. At the same time, these questions are also posed to schools, teachers, leaders and peers who are accountable for childhood development.”  Juggernath hopes that her book will help people feel like they are not alone, that there are others experiencing similar situations and there are solutions and help available if they just reach out for it.  “This book is also about challenging societal norms that don’t serve us anymore. We are an evolving generation of parents to young kids, we are a generation of parents who need to better equip our kids with emotional agility to face their own unique challenges that will come across their paths when we are not around. Our kids must not be caught off guard, unable to process and recognise grief.  “My dad was an amazing human being with moral life skills that will last me, and now my kids, into the next generation. His good deeds and humble character is why I missed him so much. Every life lesson he taught me is recorded in this book, to be shared with others. I captured it under the acronym SMSPE – spiritual, mental, social, physical and emotional,” Juggernath said.    Her advice to readers is to seek help, no matter what the situation is. “Someone has been there before you. Our challenges in life have occurred in the lives of others before and most people who have experienced similar situations will help if you reach out,” she said. The book is available online at www.madeindurban.co.za and will soon be in Exclusive Books stores. If you would like to join the private Facebook group, you can search for ‘A Father’s Daughter’. There is also a free mentorship programme for people dealing with grief and emotions, in which members volunteer and offer advice to those in need of emotional support.