The family of two Overport brothers who have been selected to represent South Africa at the Youth Easter Cup in Milan, Italy from April 6 to 9 are appealing to the community to help fund the young soccer stars’ dream as they need R14 000 each to cover the travelling costs. Brothers, Omar (10) and Mohamed Yusuf Mia (8) who play for the Durban Lyons Football Club said they are over the moon and they look forward to representing SA in Italy. Their mother, Aaliyah Mia said she is extremely proud of her boys as they have shown the love they have for soccer and always strive to be the best on the soccer field. “Omar has been playing on the field from the tender age of four-years-old. He breathes soccer.  He was scouted by Durban Lyons and is known as their Messi. He is a humble dedicated child. He won the DCLFA 2022 player of the tournament. He has also won four other player of the tournaments this year. He is loved by his coaches and players for his consistency and humbleness. He is very competitive and he is ready to face Italy and make SA proud. Omar makes us all proud. Let’s get our boys to Italy. The dedication that Omar has shown his team gave the assurance that he will be an asset to his team and make them excel. He always gives his team his whole heart, sometimes get targeted by opponents because of his speed. When he gets injured on the field, he gets up and carries on playing with dignity,” said Mia.  Mia added that her other son, Mohamed Yusuf was also scouted. “He has been playing soccer from the age of five.He has a fighting spirit, that is why he is the Durban Lyons heart as the midfielder. He never gives up, I really feel these boys have a good chance of bringing the trophy home and holding the SA flag proudly in Italy. Let’s help my children fulfil their dreams, they need you. As their mother, I would love to watch them set an example for other children and show them that they too can live their dreams.  All the money raised will be handed over to Durban Lyons FC as they are a non-profit organisation to help the boys get in Italy. They are deserving of every penny raised and will raise our SA flag and make us proud as a nation.”  Contact Aaliyah Mia on  084-017-5175 for donations.