Self motivation, dedication and not letting failure get in the way was how 19-year-old Siyabonga Magwaza achieved seven distinctions in the National Senior Certificate examinations for the Class of 2022. The University of KwaZulu-Natal bound Pedros employee, from Amaoti, said he surprised even himself when he received his matric results. “I knew that I was going to do well because I was dedicated to my studies, however, I did not expect to obtain such high marks,” Magwaza said. The Siphesihle Secondary School matriculant, who was celebrated on Friday as one of eThekwini’s top achievers, obtained 91% in IsiZulu (Home Language), 81% in English (First Additional Language), 97% in Mathematics Literacy, 89% for Life Science, 92% in History, 82% in Consumer Studies and 95% for Life Orientation. Magwaza was excited as he confirmed that he has accepted an offer to study towards a Bachelor of Law (LLB) at UKZN Howard College. “I am looking forward to becoming a lawyer because I want to fight for people who cannot fight for themselves. I want to make an impact in my community and hopefully assist wherever I can,” he said. Magwaza’s success in his matric exams not only impressed his family but also his employer’s who donated R10 000 towards his studies. He started working at the Pedros in Verulam in December 2022, to save up for his education. Prior to that, the hard working young man said he was in part-time employment from the young age of 15 doing small jobs such as gardening, working at construction sites and panel beaters, to assist his family through trying times. “Due to working part-time and studying, I failed in Grade 10 but I did not give up and worked harder to make sure that I passed and that I did well afterwards. I always motivated myself because I know what my goal is in life,” said Magwaza, who has become an inspiration for the Class of 2023 at Siphesihle Secondary School. Magwaza added that he would like to thank those that helped and assisted him along the way. “I want to send my heartfelt gratitude to Phulisile Jali, for providing me with extra learning material for my last year of high school. I want to also thank the Pedros family for pledging towards my future. I appreciate everything,” he said. The manager of the Pedros in Verulam, Nathan Pillay, said he was extremely proud Magwaza. He said: “Siyabonga is a very hardworking and smart young man. He has the potential to achieve his goals but is limited due to the lack of funds. I would really like to see him pursue his dream. I believe that he will do well.” Should you or your business be interested in assisting Siyabonga further his studies contact info@iloveverulam.com or WhatsApp 061 500 5500.