High school sweethearts, Sarah Mohun and Essa Ally’s story first took off when their long lost friendship was reignited by love after reuniting at their school’s reunion, 20 years ago. Sarah, who works for the South African Youth Development Agency and Ally, a Durban Solid Waste (DSW) driver supervisor, met at Brookdale Secondary School where it was love at first sight for the couple. However, life got in the way and the Phoenix couple had to go their separate ways at that time. Years later, the couple found each other on social media and reunited at their school reunion where their budding love blossomed again. “I still had the same high school crush feeling when we met after all those years, I was still so nervous like I was in our school days,”said Sara. “She was my best buddy then and still is. When I met her again all I wanted to do was kiss her,” said a blushing Essa. After five years of courting, the couple still admire each other’s qualities and personality that they fell in love with in the beginning, they still vibe with each other and there’s never a dull moment in their lives together. “I love Sarah for being the person she is, truthful and kind, especially to my kids. I admire her for being such a great mum. I found true love with her and she is excellent in whatever she does, she always manages to put a smile on my face,” said Essa. “I love the fact that Essa still admires me like the first day we met at school, he takes care of me physically and emotionally. He looks at me with passion, he is such a loving person and everyone loves him. I was looking for love and attention from some one who loves me in return and he gives me all of that,” shared Sarah. The couple have made it their duty to take care of each other’s needs constantly, they love family time and communication is very important to them. The one moment they will remember forever is the look they used to give each other in school and they still look at each other that same way up until today. The couple will be celebrating Valentine’s Day with a relaxing day out at Oyster Box with roses and chocolates just to share each other’s company. Their advice to other couples from having loved, lost each other and found one another again is: “Put God first in everything you do. In order to be a couple you have to love yourself, if you cannot love yourself you cannot love your partner. Make communication an important aspect in your relationships, try to never leave a problem for the next day and make things right the same time. Every moment in your lives should be precious and valued by each other, you should stand by one another and make sure your partner has your peace, love, attention and in return every type of love you need,” said the couple.