Ustaadhah Youssra Kamel Kandil, a prominent Muslim personality from the United States of America will conduct a women’s only seminar at the NMJ Islamic Centre in Morningside, Durban on Sunday, the 19th of February. Entitled “Blueprint for a Muslimah: Striving for excellence in character,” the seminar is being hosted by ILM for Women, a branch of the Institute for Learning and Motivation – South Africa (ILM-SA). “We felt that as the auspicious fasting month of Ramadan is around the corner, a seminar empowering women with the tools and knowledge we require in order to better ourselves, would be apt,” explained Fatima Asmal, the founder and a co-director of ILM-SA. “Bettering our relationship with our Creator goes hand-in-hand with improving our relationships with ourselves and with others.” Asmal added that in addition to being jam-packed with inspiration and knowledge, the seminar would also help raise much-needed funds for ILM-SA. “Raising the required funds to keep the organisation afloat is tough,” she said. “We assist dozens of tertiary students with bursaries and are involved in many other activities all of which entail operating expenses which need to covered. Proceeds from this event, will help us sustain ourselves. ” Ustaadhah Youssra Kamel Kandil is a motivational speaker whose objective is to reconnect hearts back to the spirit and light of Islam. She has captured the hearts of thousands of Muslims, as well as people from other faith groups, around the world with her online posts. The majority of her childhood was spent in Kenya and Zimbabwe, after which she moved to Egypt, where she worked with the world renowned Islamic personality Dr. Amr Khaled. After moving to the USA, she continued her studies while teaching at a prominent Islamic school. Concurrently, she ran religious classes, fundraisers and matrimonial events around the country. She has completed the Uwaylim Scholarship track – which gives individuals a solid grounding in the fundamentals of Islam – with Sh. Shadee El Masry, and is currently working on memorising the Qur’an. She serves as a board member of Legacy International Online High School and the head of the social services department at Cornerstone Counselling. Tickets for her Durban seminar “Blueprint for a Muslimah: Striving for excellence in character” which takes place from 11am to 3pm on Sunday, the 19th of February at the NMJ Islamic Centre are R300 each and are available online at http://bit.ly/youssra_DBN. A limited number of printed physical tickets are also available at the ILM-SA office. WhatsApp 083 271 4500 for further information.