The Democratic Alliance (DA) recently presented an explosive fact-filled report which alleged critical system and department failures including the looting of a 45 million rand Ezakheni water pump station which has left over 70 000 residents in Ladysmith without water almost on daily a basis. Schools, shops and households in the district are all struggling to function due to this lack of a basic service. The meeting was held by DA uThukela Chairperson, Councillor Thys Janse van Rensburg, and DA KZN Leader, Francois Rodgers (MPL), as well as DA MP and uThukela Constituency Head, Alf Lees, at the Ladysmith Moth Hall on Tuesday, 14 February. In the report, the DA has discovered that the six industrial pumps that were locally manufactured by a South African manufacturer called APE were removed in April 2022 and are to be written off by a third party. APE monitored these pumps remotely via telemetry and confirmed that the pumps incurred no damage during the April 2022 floods. APE has also not been afforded the opportunity to inspect these pumps as provided for in the warranty agreement. In April 2022, the town of Ladysmith and the Ezakheni water works extraction point were flooded. The governing IFP allowed a third party to clean up the pumps and they advised that the six industrial pumps were damaged. They were, however, not returned to the manufacturer (APE) for inspection and repair, but seemingly handed over to a third party that declared that they should be written off. “Incredibly, the pumps – which came at a cost to the taxpayer of R45 million – have been removed after only being in service for five years, despite a decade-long anticipated lifespan. We, as the DA, are concerned that the intention to write off these assets can be driven by ulterior motives. “While there seems to be very little leadership and political will to get these pumps repaired and fitted, the current extraction plant can only provide 25% of the required water demand. This means that thousands of households and businesses in Ladysmith run dry every day. “Further, as the old neglected underground reticulation pipes run dry and then get charged with pressure, they burst and leak on mass, further complicating lives for residents of Ladysmith and wasting valuable resources,” said Rodgers. The third party then proposed a make-shift plan with the installation of six lesser commercial-grade pumps as a stop-gap measure. Cllr Janse van Rensburg said that he would like to thank the whistle-blowers who had bravely stood up and informed him about the situation. During a visit to the Ezakheni Water Plant, The Ladysmith Herald heard how tired the anonymous sources were getting after receiving numerous calls from residents and councillors, demanding answers as to why they had no water in their taps. “I’m so tired of taking the blame and being hurled abuse over the phone because of the pumps not working at full capacity,” said one source. During the visit, we witnessed empty spaces where the pumps were meant to be. The report further shows that the situation has been allowed to deteriorate to such a degree that the financial viability of the whole municipality is in jeopardy. Currently, only 30% of rates are being paid as residents turn their backs on the district due to seeing the bad service delivery. “As the crises deepen, the cause of these ongoing disruptions seem to be known by both the uThukela management team and elected leadership, and yet it seems that the governing IFP lacks the political will to rectify the crises that have been ongoing for months now. “Questions of concern will also be raised around the possibility of rental agreements with the third party for the lesser pumps. Were the original APE pumps paid for in full? Were they designed to last for decades?” questioned Rodgers. During the meeting, Rodgers gave the IFP-run uThukela District Municipality 72 hours to submit a report. “If the IFP fails to table the report, the DA will have to reconsider its support of the IFP in the district.” A detailed questionnaire was sent to the office of the uThukela District Municipal Manager, who responded by first acknowledging the media inquiry that he received. “However, he seemed to be overwhelmed by a lot of questions directed to him regarding activities within the municipality. He obviously will need enough time to collate the information in his bag. This might take up to two weeks or so to respond as he’s currently out of the office,” concluded the uThukela office.