The parents of the late Trinity Govender, who are accused of abusing the eight-year-old girl and her 14-year-old brother have responded to the allegations levelled against them, calling it orchestrated lies. Trinity was laid to rest on 25 January after being hospitalised for four months following serious injuries from a fire incident that left her with third degree burns to her upper body while serving customers at her family’s tuck-shop. After the incident, allegations of abuse at the family home surfaced with Govender’s son, his grand parents and neighbours alleging that the abuse was an ongoing thing. Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid, the late eight-year-old’s mother, Denice Govender and Ravi Pillay who was Trinity’s stepfather, said that they are living in fear after numerous social media attacks in relation to the allegations. Govender said: “The past few days have been the hardest having to deal with our daughter’s death while being tormented and threatened for false accusations on social media. We’ve been having sleepless nights and are being threatened on various social media platforms due to the false allegations that have been made against us. As a mother, I am very hurt by these accusations as I have never hurt my children in any form.” “Losing my daughter has really traumatised me as I had been with her throughout her stay at the hospital while my husband and I ensured that she felt safe, loved and taken care of for over four months. On the day of my daughter’s funeral, I had to leave the venue and sit in the car because there were a group of women passing worrying comments and threatening to strip me naked and burn me alive. I felt scared and had to leave my daughter’s funeral service. I was also unable to do her last rites at the crematorium. I wouldn’t wish any parent to go through what I am going through.” Govender said it angers her that all these allegations are coming out now. “If anyone had any suspicions of us hurting my child, shouldn’t it have been reported and dealt with while my baby was alive. Now that my baby is no longer with us and doesn’t have a voice to state that we never hurt her, people are making baseless accusations. My son is being manipulated with money, gadgets and other items to lie and say all these harsh things. If he was really being abused, he would have raised the alarm with my parents, his friends or his teachers but he only started making these false accusations after his sister passed away and had been living with his grandparents for some time. I personally feel that he is being told what to say. There are many things behind these allegations and nothing has to do with my daughter, many people are using this as an excuse to torment my husband and I and this is not right. We are not being given time to grieve for our daughter because there’s people with their own agendas passing these damaging allegations and have turned the community against us. We are being judged and tormented for things we’ve never done by our very own community and are living in fear because of the daily attacks on social media,” added Govender. Pillay said they are being forced to speak because the information that is circulating is false and damaging. “I’m an active member of the community, who has given back numerous times to underprivileged children and their families. I absolutely love children and would never harm my children in any way. I am heart broken by the false narrative that has been portrayed about us. We took care of Trinity and her brother to the best of our ability, if something was happening, the children would have spoken out, their grades would have been affected, however Toress still remains the bright child who achieves distinctions. Being an A student, if he or his sister were being neglected and abused, he would have spoken to a teacher or the principal about the abuse,” Pillay said. He said they have had to close down their stall at the Phoenix Plaza because of the allegations against them. “I don’t want people coming to me and calling me an abuser when that is the furthest thing from the truth. We are currently doing everything we can to stay away from people who are making these allegations as we do not want things to blow out of proportion and want the situation to be handled the right way. We want the proper investigations to be done so that we can once and for all be cleared from all these allegations, grieve our daughter the way we should and move on in life without everyone looking at us with disgust,” added Pillay. Director of Phoenix Child Welfare, Aroona Chetty said the society was very saddened to hear about Trinity’s death and had been monitoring her recovery progress, however the society was not aware of any abuse on the child. “There were no prior allegations of abuse or neglect reported to the Phoenix Child Welfare, prior to the fire incident. The matter is currently under investigation,” said Chetty. The police had yet to comment by the time of print.